Autumn rises into the bright sky. Inland stagnant under fog. A kestrel hovered beside the brook that separates the flat river plain from the wooded hill. The tiercel freed himself from starlings with a rippling slash of wings, and melted up into the mauve haze of the northern sky. Fog lifted. Fog hid the day in steamy heat. Dry leaves wither and shine, green of the oak is fading, elms are barred with luminous gold. One of those rare autumn days, calm under high cloud, mild, with patches of distant sunlight circling round and rafters of blue sky crumbling into mist. Fog cleared quickly after one o’clock, and sun shone. Waders slept in the spray that leapt from the waves along the shingle ridges. The valley a damp cocoon of mist; rain drifting through; jackdaws elaborating their oddities of voice and flight, their rackety pursuits, their febrile random feeding; golden plover calling in the rain. The peregrine hovered above the river meadows, large and shining in dark coils of starlings, facing the strong south wind and the freshness of the morning sun. Many winter migrants have come into the valley since the twentieth. The quiet sky brimmed with cloud, the air was cool and calm, the dry lanes brittle with dead leaves. The field was silent, misty, furtive with movement. Beyond the last farm buildings, the smell of the salt and the mud and the sea-weed mingles with the smell of dead leaves and nutty autumn hedges, and suddenly there is no more inland, and green fields float out to the skyline on a mist of water. Ground up by the slow bit of the plough, big clods of black-brown earth curved over into furrows, sliced and shiny-solid, sun glinting on their smooth-cut edges. The wind-shred banner of the autumn light spanned the green headland between the two estuaries. The whole land shone golden-yellow, bronze, and rusty-red, gleamed water-clear, submerged in brine of autumn light. The sky peeled white in the north-west gale, leaving the eye no refuge from the sun’s cold glare. Morning was hooded and seeled with deep grey cloud and mist. A magpie chattered in an elm near the river, watching the sky. Wisps of sunlight in a bleak of cloud, gulls bone-white in ashes of sky. Very still the estuary; misty skylines merged into white water; all peaceful, just the talk of the duck floating in with the tide. I flushed two woodcock from hornbeam coppice. Above South Wood, a small stream flows through a steep-sided valley. The valley was calm, magnified in mist, domed with a cold adamantine glory. In the morning I walked east along the sea-wall, from the estuary to the sea. A wrought-iron starkness of leafless trees stands sharply up along the valley skyline. A peregrine soared above the valley in the morning sunshine and the warm south breeze. Rooks and gulls moving over the rainy town at dawn: rooks to the estuary, gulls to inland. Nothing was clear in the tractor-echoing dreariness of this misty day. At midday a peregrine flew from inland, passing quite close to me as I stood on the sea-wall near the saltings. Two kills by the river: kingfisher and snipe. The peregrine soared unseen in the blue zenith of the misty sky, and circled east above the rising coils of gulls. The tide was low. All day the low clouds lay above the marshes and thin rain drifted in from the sea. The sun fired the bone-white coral of the frosted hedges with a cold and sullen glow. Golden leaves of sunlight drifted down through morning fog. Bleak light, brutal wind, thickening cloud, showers of sleet. High clouds slowly filled the sky, the morning whitened out, the sun was hidden. The warm west gale heaved and thundered across the flat river plain, crashed and threshed high its crests of airy spray against the black breakwater of the wooded ridge. The low sun was dazzling, the south a polar blaze. The silent east wind breathed white frost on to grass and trees and the edges of still water, and the sun did not melt it. Mist cleared in the afternoon and widening rings of sunlight rippled out. Woodpigeons clouded the big fields between river and brook, and a hundred mallard lifted through wheeling lapwings and gulls. The shortest day: dull, cold, with a sudden flare of sunlight before dusk. Bright frosty day, fading from brightness slowly, hour by hour. The day hardened in the easterly gale, like a flawless crystal. Snow lay thick in South Wood, making the trees look black and hard, muffling the small sounds of the birds. The fields were covered by three inches of snow, glittering in the powerless morning sun. Broken columns of snow towered over lanes dug from ten-foot drifts. The sun shone today for the first time this year. Still, hazy, cloudless; the small sun pale and shrunken in a white sky. Today I walked for ten miles beside the river. Through the frosted window-pane at sunrise I saw bullfinches feeding in the apple trees, the bright fire of their breasts glowing, then the sullen red smoke of the sun breathing from the eastern rim. This was a day made absolute, the sun unflawed, the blue sky pure. The crests of the higher fields are dappled brown and white, but snow is still a foot deep on the lower ground. The slow thaw continues, and birds are returning to the valley. The days are cloudless now. This was the eighth successive cloudless day, and the burnished blue of the sky shone as though it could never again be hidden. The snow is Neolithic, eroded by the warm south wind. Still the warm south wind renewing, the sun warm, the air light and clear. A day of endless wind and rain, which I wasted away in the lee of hollow trees, in sheds and barns, and under broken carts. I went out at four o’clock. The morning sun was low and dazzling, and the wind cold, as I walked along the sea-wall by the north shore of the estuary. Towering white clouds grew in the marble sunlight of the morning. I spent the day on the south side of the estuary, walking in the wet fields and searching for hawks in the long tree-hedges and the warm, lark-hung sky. The valley is flooded now, and the tiercel is hunting and bathing in the higher, greener lands to the south and east. A mistle thrush sang by the ford, the first of the year, rolling out his rich mellow phrases. Along the southern shore of the estuary the water dwindled out in shallows of shining silver-blue. A brilliant south-west gale, broken sunlight, warm white clouds. It was six o’clock, an hour before sunrise, when I stopped to watch a barn owl. Long scrolls and columns of cloud poured away in the grey east wind and made the sky seem endless. The drizzle of the morning thinned to mist, the mist gave way to cloud, but the day stayed damp and dull. A tawny owl, long dead, lay at the edge of South Wood. Clouds high, wind cold, horizons picked clean by the wind. Today was a whole season away from yesterday, warmed by a strong west wind and mellow sunlight, hazing down to a yellow scented dusk. White waves swept over molten blue water, searing the warm sea-wall. Soft, reflective, mooing sounds came from a small oak in the hedge beside the sea-wall. All day the south-west wind rose. Two hundred golden plover fed in growing corn, listening and stabbing forward and down, like big thrushes. Rain fell till two o’clock, followed by showers and mist and watery sunlight. It was a cool limpid sunrise, just a lightening of the eastern haze, a faint intensity of cloud. Spring evening; the air mild, without edges, smelling of damp grass, fresh soil, and farm chemicals. It was warm. Wild cherry lined the green lane to the creek with the green and white of leaf and blossom. 