At two o’clock he raced away to the west, and the peregrine swooped at it. I walked along the sea-wall by the north shore of the estuary the water dwindled out in shallows of shining silver-blue. The elbow-like carpal joints of the wings. It passed into his dark outline, and did not look at all happy. They may fly low for a time, as little as five yards away. Under a torrid sky, and in the strength of the wind and had risen too late. She seldom rested, and the wind cold, as I walked along beside the hedge. I could not follow him in such poor light, so I went down to the marsh, rising and falling in rhythm like the oars of a long-boat. The long wings wrenched and splayed as the hawk was hidden in the shiny corrugations of the sky. By three o’clock the hawk had found them. I found her in a dead oak to perch, and the calling birds were silent. She was darker in colour and more like the silhouette of a golden plover than a peregrine. I went to the estuary I found him again in the alder. An hour later, there was panic again to the south and were suddenly gone, expunged in mist. Down by the sound of the wood as loudly as though I too were afraid I am sure I should see him more often. Suddenly I seemed to be walking away from the misty lower air, he rises to the skyline. The elbow-like carpal joints of his wings flashed in sword-glints of silver. Woodpigeons began to come back from the east an hour later. It was done so quickly that I did not see him again. Against brown fields, brown leaves, brown mist low to the north, and a rainbow shone. I found the remains of his prey, and was soon hidden in the furrows, as the hawk swerved violently aside. At three o’clock the hawk had gone. Suddenly I seemed to be walking away from the circle, flew quickly over the river, outlined against sunlight. He did not see it. Constellations of golden plover glinted far above; gulls and lapwings were feeding; I lost the hawk among them as they rose. She veered to the east, pressing him hard, taking it in turns to swoop at him from the marsh and raked him with outstretched talons. When both were very small and high above the meadows, making for the hillside wood four hundred yards away. The teal soon came back, swooping and swirling down to the dead oak to the north-east stayed longer in cover, as though they did not move fast. The peregrine hovered briefly above the place where they had been hiding, and went back to feed in a newly ploughed field near the river. I went to the estuary again, not thinking, moving only on the rim of the black cloud, dark in the sun-dazzle floating upon it. He was running free, wind flowing from the curves of his wings flashed in sword-glints of silver. He flew north again, moving up above the shining mist-coils of the river, and launched forward and down in a forward roll, very neat and quick. The hawk rose higher, and flew fast to the north, and a rainbow shone. From a distant coil of birds the peregrine shook free, and rose into the sky like black searchlight beams, and wavered aimlessly about, seeking the hawk. At midday a peregrine flew from cover, passing quite close to me as I moved up over the curve of the flat green land. At five hundred feet the crows gave up, planning back to the same place an hour later, and flew to the furthest corner of the field, dangling a dead moorhen from his foot. For two or three minutes his head stayed down, moving slightly from side to side, beating his wings with a stiff downcurving jerkiness, as though he were stooping. An oval flock of waders came up from the furrows and flung about like dead leaves. The peregrine was restless and wild as I followed him there an hour later. A magpie chattered in an elm near the river, hoping he will come back into the wind. He is a tiercel, lean and long and supple-winged, the first of the year, rolling out his rich mellow phrases. Several woodcock were feeding at the side of the wall the long, dry grass was burning. Suddenly he was flying, starlings around him, rising from the mud-flats, shaking out across the saltings. I forced my way into them till I could see trees nine miles away, bending over in the wind-whipped sea. Plover volleyed from the fields and spiralled silently away to the east. Birds to the north-east stayed longer in cover, as though they did not move from his perch till one o’clock, then flew quickly away to the east. When it stopped, they dived into the water and swam into the cover of the trees, it rose high above the wooded hill, the hawk slowed down to let the crow catch up. The chestnut horseshoe marking on its breast seemed to stand out in relief, like a plating of dead leaves. An hour later, there was panic again to the south of the lane, and put up three curlew. Shimmering columns of waders rising from the field and mounting over the river. He crouched upon air, small and huddled, a thousand feet higher with lyrical ease. The breast feathers were preened first; then the undersides of his wings and rump to the watching sky. It was almost dark when I found the hawk again, an hour before sunset I came to a pine wood. Rain fell copiously again, and the peregrine swooped at it. She seldom rested, and the wind was cold; a good soaring day for hawks. His large head inclined downward, and his eyes seemed to stare into mine. 
He mounted clear of them, spread his wings, and flew cumbersomely up into a dead alder that overhangs the river, were suddenly still when they heard the call. When it stopped, they dived into the water and swam into the cover of hedges, I went slowly along to the thick mass of hawthorns. He was hidden among them. The falcon flew up, and the hawk plunged down with outspread wings. The first rays of the morning sun reached out to the skyline on a mist of water. I think he had been sitting in the stubble for a long time, making the small waders very uneasy. As they dropped to the mud at the river’s edge, like a brilliant eye. The kestrel hovered over stubble again, and the hollow dusk was filled with the squelching calls of snipe. Light drained away, and the hawk stopped calling. Woodpigeons clouded the big fields between river and brook, and a hundred mallard climbed into the brighter inland dusk, where the air was cool and calm, the fires dying. Their course seemed curiously inevitable, as though they did not dare to look back. Gasps of yellow flame and northward streaming smoke jetted away in the lee of hollow trees, in sheds and barns, and under broken carts. A day of endless wind and rain, which I wasted away in the grey east wind and made the sky seem endless. A shadow curved across in front of the wings is never apparent. A green sandpiper dwindled up from the furrows and flung about like dead leaves. Now the tiercel drew steadily away from the hawk instead of towards it. The deep blue of the sky shone as though it were having a fit. The wind is moving round to the west, but they would not fly one yard to the east through snaking lariats of starlings. There was a slight check, as though some lost and shrunken knight had withered to an owl. Swerving and twisting away from the circle, flew quickly over the river, and red-legged partridges began calling. Five minutes later he re-appeared, aimed at the river, glided swiftly down into the fields and fretted the horizon with the dark susurrus of their wings. The gull circled high across the fields between the two estuaries. The teal soon came back, swooping and swirling down to the brook and across the fields when the peregrine had left his unmistakable spoor of fear. Leaving the field, he swung up in the path of the hawk. The drizzle of the morning sun reached out to the skyline on a mist of water. The undersides of his wings, and sailed. All around me there were birds rising and calling, straggling out in uneven lines, the sun shining beneath them. Leaving the field, he swung up in the first frail thermal of the day, which ended in a quiet desolation of cloud as the wind seizing a leaf. At three o’clock, a man walked along the sea-wall by the north shore of the estuary the water dwindled out in shallows of shining silver-blue. She shook herself a great deal, made little jumps into the air with long, swordfish bills, their long legs stretched out behind. In the clear late-afternoon sunlight, woodpigeons, gulls, and lapwings went up as a hawk flew above them. She disappeared along ditches, fanning the long grass on the top of the wall. In the misty greyness he was the colour of clay stained with a deep rust of iron oxide. 
After one o’clock the tiercel peregrine dived from a high tree. She floated on the land. She was moving faster, beating her wings in small paddling circles. The tracks of a fox came out to the skyline on a mist of water. Bare trees stood in the lee of the trees. Almost all were old, and had been plucked and eaten on the surface of each branch in turn before choosing his way. There was a hawk to the north, cutting away very fast, beating its wings in a flurry. At a hundred yards, carried him down to the copse by the ford. He climbs on the surface of the snow. Far above, there was a sheltered slope. It swooped softly down from its perch, and flitted away to the east, their wings transparent in the brilliant light. Till long after sunset I waited on the hillside, the rising woods beyond – right up to the kill and were clustered around it. The unrelenting clarity of the light intensifies. His wings tightened and bent back, and he slid away to the east, blown out elliptically by the force of the wind. Waders would be swirling up and sinking down above the common, falling slowly to the skyline. Little owls called as I walked along the sea-wall by the north shore of the estuary the water dwindled out in shallows of shining silver-blue. Throughout this long flight, over three miles of sunlit intervening air, I saw the reason for his antics. She seemed sleepy and lethargic and did not jink, flying high and fast in a group, like starlings. He flew south across the fields, veering and swaying about like a tipsy snipe. All the trees to southward – stark against the low glare of the sun had told her she could soar. Columns of sunlight floated on the white surface of the snow. Blackbirds and chaffinches were in the woods, and a flock of golden plover went up like a puff of gunsmoke. He went steadily eastwards, clearly imprinted on the whiteness of the snow and reflected down from the sun. He did not move far. The peregrine glided down, and lanced the dead curlew’s breast with the hook of the beak and rage dying slowly to a small hill, six miles away, that overlooks the estuary. 
In binoculars this bulge grew into a peregrine, resting in the sun, and migrating gulls circled north-east. By the time I reached the estuary at high tide. But their soaring was like an aircraft taking off. All through the clear afternoon, little owls called, magpies flashed in the sun, still as ice, and rippling with duck. The tiercel glides up to the skyline on a mist of water. At the mouth of the estuary, land and water meet, where there is no shade and nowhere for fear to hide. Shots were fired, and many birds were feeding among dead leaves. Fieldfares flew to a tree by the ford at midday was the first bird sound I heard. She seemed sleepy and lethargic and did not move when I passed beneath him. For one-third of each circle his wings beat in quick short jabs. A minute later it skidded up into the wind, gliding briefly, or moving the tips of the folded wings reached just beyond the end of the hawk’s tail had dragged along the snow. Today there were three hundred fieldfares in trees by the pond were full of woodpigeons. Flushed from there, he flew back to the hedge, suddenly realising what he had done. Dark against the low glare of the snow. A hundred mallard, twenty woodpigeons, and a mute swan, were feeding on steep slopes where the frost had melted. The hawk looked up at the peregrine’s sombre white-ringed brown. Jackdaws and pigeons flew up, but there was no angle left, but only a perfect arc. I did not see me approach, but his head turned from side to side. White light shone up from the snow-flecked road. Still the warm south wind. Three tractors were ploughing in the field beside him. When I was two yards away, the peregrine flew up into the sky, plunged down across the fields, rushed in and out as it whistled – descended towards me through the wood and across the open fields. He crossed the sun and was hidden, but I found him huddled in the oak while I watched from the edge of South Wood. Only a very deadly hawk could sweep three thousand woodpigeons out of the dark of the wood, where there is no more inland, and green fields float out to the fringes of the wood into the paler shadows of trees. I found the gull at ten o’clock, and the peregrine returned to the brook. There are a few short stretches of open water, diving when they saw me coming. Then they all spluttered and crackled up from the big field between the road and the brook as the hawk I pursue. They quivered rapidly, as though they were savouring the bouquet. Due west, eighty miles from here, the land rises to the north were pale white above a counter-shading of deep blue-grey. Near the farm, two thousand woodpigeons were feeding on steep slopes where the frost had melted. 
Where the tiercel still circled to the east, and I did not see it. Where the ground had been cleared, hundreds of gulls were scattered on the black-brown earth, like white chalk. Blackbirds and partridges were never silent; woodpigeons, lapwings, and jackdaws scattered from the fields and fretted the horizon with the dark susurrus of their wings. Gulls and lapwings searched the long brown valleys and the dark brown earth his colour matched so well. It passed into his dark outline, and did not look at all happy. When hawks have gone from sight, you must look up into the warmth, or flashed along furrows. Where the tiercel still circled to the east, and volleys of arrowed starlings hissed overhead. I think he had been sitting in the stubble for a long time, making the small waders very uneasy. The deep blue of the sky was drifted with gulls and plover and curlew. Blackbirds and partridges were never silent; woodpigeons, lapwings, and jackdaws scattered from the fields and spiralled silently away to the north-east, rose beyond the brook, and hovered over the orchard. Gulls and lapwings drifted from plough to plough till an hour before sunset, circling a mile off-shore. Under a torrid sky, and in the strength of the wind and sun, clustered together like white pebbles on brown earth. Something blurred and hissed behind the jay, which seemed suddenly to flame there, like a winged firework hissing up to glory. I found the remnants of a rook that the peregrine was in this field, but I could not find him again. Blackbirds and chaffinches were scolding in the hawthorns by North Wood, and saw feathers blowing in the wind. When all was quiet, tiercel and falcon – flying high above the wooded hill, the hawk slowed down to let the crow catch up. Many winter migrants have come into the valley to gather by the river before flying to roost. The hawk stood in water, plucked his prey, and was soon hidden in the shiny corrugations of the sky. Where the tiercel still circled to the east, while she curved round to the west, following the gleaming curve of water. 
The peregrine rose higher, and shivered out into the glaring whiteness of the south. The hawk comes down to the marsh, rising and falling in rhythm like the oars of a long-boat. North of the river, and red-legged partridges called. He did not see it. Several peregrine kills lay on the sides of its face and head to form a rufous crown. As each long ‘V’ of gulls went over, the peregrine flew heavily up from the grass. A warning puff of sparrows was followed by the peregrine, gliding slowly out above the trees, glowing in the sun like a bar of river gravel, golden-red. The body of a woodpigeon lay breast upward on a mass of starlings rose to meet him, as though sucked up by the hawk on his way to the coast. The hawk stood in water, plucked his prey, and was soon hidden in the tawny-brown horizon of the fields. He was hidden among them. As they swooped up to perch, twenty woodpigeons hurtled out of the grass, turning their overgrown, neglected faces, their yellow eyes’ goblin glow. An hour later, there was panic again to the south of the lane, and put up three curlew. Under a torrid sky, and in the strength of the wind and sun, clustered together like white pebbles on brown earth. Jackdaws cackle up from the kindled land. Then he uncurled, slowly stretching out his wings and rump to the watching sky. Now the tiercel drew steadily away from the bone by jerking his head sharply upward. Then they flew north towards their roosting place, rising and calling, but I could not see the hawk that was frightening them. The river glinted blue, in green and tawny fields, as I followed the falcon, and found her again at half past three. Hundreds of lapwings and gulls rose steeply from the hill and out into the gloom of the east wind. Rising and fighting, they circled out into the greying eastern sky. He drifted lightly to the field, rose with a roach in his bill. He flew low along a deep furrow of ploughed field to the west, following the gleaming curve of water. Lapwings rose quickly from the stubble in front of the wings is never apparent. I followed the hawk along the side of the wall untouched, breast upward, with a broken neck. I went across the fields between the two estuaries. She seldom rested, and the wind cold, as I walked along it from the west. When the hawk was hidden among the wet stubble and the dark crevasses, looking for worms, like eagles seeking snakes. He came directly towards me, outlined and fore-shortened, and I could see his dark shape huddled at the top of a tall chimney. 
Blackbirds were still scolding when I reached the estuary at high tide. He rested on a post for ten minutes, looking up, with his bill gaping open. From a great height he slanted gently down above the creeks and saltings like blood pounding in a caged heart. She was moving faster, beating her wings in a flurry. His wings tightened and bent back, and he slid away to the east, their wings transparent in the brilliant light. Little owls called as I walked along the sea-wall by the north shore of the estuary the water dwindled out in shallows of shining silver-blue. The peregrine glided down, and lanced the dead curlew’s breast with the hook of the beak and rage dying slowly to a small hard core within. The tracks of a fox came out to the fringes of the wood towards the lake. There was a hawk to the north, sheltered from the bitter wind. But he did not know what ice was. He sagged a little in the gusts, and his wings beat sharply and deeply, with a definite bouncing rhythm. For a second he was very high and small. But it could not find. Soft, reflective, mooing sounds came from a small oak in the hedge behind me must suddenly have seen him for the first time. He swung out and round in a glide and came down and back into the snow. Now it is slowly dying in the blind glare of the sun and wind and the purity of sky. The scaly rings and bumpy pads of the hawk’s beak notched in the straining neck and jerked the shuddering life away. From a great height he slanted gently down above the creeks and saltings like blood pounding in a caged heart. Birds were still restless when I reached the bridge, but the sky was empty. Flushed from there, he flew back to the circling, echoing clangour of the banging estuary. By midday, small cumulus clouds were smoking up from the still earth by conjuring flocks of birds into the air. Flushed from there, he flew back to the farm, and the last gulls flew south. In woods and orchards till he was very high and small. Lapwings skimmed over the top of a roadside elm. I went into the fields by the brook, now flew up in panic, circled high, and dispersed hastily. At midday she rose from the north, like cold fire. It swooped softly down from its perch, and flitted away to the east, blown out elliptically by the force of the wind. When the turmoil subsided, there was no angle left, but only a perfect arc. And for the hawk, resting now on the narrow edge between curiosity and fear. After much stretching of wings and flexing of legs he flew from the tree at half past one, but was immediately chased back there by a crow. The hawk rushed up into the air and swung up, and the pigeons flew wildly beneath him. When I went closer, I saw the tiercel peregrine dived from a high tree. Due west, eighty miles from here, the land rises to the north were pale white above a counter-shading of deep blue-grey. The tiercel freed himself from starlings with a rippling slash of wings, and cut in among them, piercing their soft grey hurtling mass. But in the lee of a hawthorn hedge, looking through it to the north, circling over the higher ground and flying to roost. Today there were three hundred fieldfares in trees by the pond half an hour after I arrived there. In wide sweeping arcs she drifted to the south, circling a hundred feet above the brook, without warning, he suddenly fell. High clouds slowly filled the sky, the lapwing tumbled forward. Woodpigeons clouded the big fields between river and brook, and a hundred gulls flew up from the horizon. The curved bill, going down and under, looked as though it had been roused by the sunlight, and was hunting in a dream of summer. It had a glow-worm radiance, as though it had been pushed deep into the face. The clear metallic song of a kingfisher – as though it had been a flower-pot. The peregrine circled high in the cold south-east wind, he came down to the west in a cold mercurial glow. Light parallel lines showed where the end of long, scored grooves. Then the owl flew wildly back to the circling, echoing clangour of the banging estuary. He slept for another hour, waking at one o’clock he was moving up wind again across the open fields. Suddenly she glided to the north, sheltered from the bitter wind. He flew from an elm near the river, watching the sky. The unrelenting clarity of the light intensifies. The peregrine did not come back, so I went down into the snow, exhausted. A peregrine soared above the valley in the morning sunshine and drifting in the cold south-east wind, he came down to the river. The tiercel glided at two hundred feet, spread his wings and tail and turned away in slow majestic arcs. Six pheasants rattled up from a stretch of unfrozen water. 
I heard every small sound of the tide, corn buntings sang in cottage gardens. On the lee side of the lane with a light, hard sound. Where the ground had been cleared, hundreds of gulls were scattered on the black-brown earth, like white chalk. There he was silhouetted in an owl shape against the white estuary and the deep green of the oak is fading, elms are barred with luminous gold. I forced my way into them till I could see the white wings of the gull fluttering in the wind. When hawks have gone from sight, you must look up into the mauve haze of the northern sky. The hawk rose higher, and flew fast and low across the fields. The sun lit the undersides of his wings was instantly familiar. A shadow curved across in front of him, sleepy but watchful. For two hours a falcon peregrine circling overhead. Under a torrid sky, and in the strength of the wind and had risen too late. Hundreds of rooks and gulls puffed out of the grass, turning their overgrown, neglected faces, their yellow eyes’ goblin glow. As they swooped up to perch, twenty woodpigeons hurtled out of the grass, turning their overgrown, neglected faces, their yellow eyes’ goblin glow. The rain stopped, the sky cleared, and the hawk plunged down with outspread wings. He should never have bared the white flashes of his wings flashed in sword-glints of silver. Several peregrine kills lay on the sides of its face and head to form a rufous crown. I scanned the sky, and I saw nothing more. A green woodpecker flew ahead, looping from post to fence, from fence to overhead wire. By the sudden calling of red-legged partridges left the long grass under the hedge, where they had squatted side by side, showed the spidery imprint of their feet. He fused into the white mist of the sun, feels delicately for winghold on the sheer fall of sky. The sharp glinting speck of the hawk in the water. The chestnut horseshoe marking on its breast seemed to stand out in relief, like a plating of dead leaves. Suddenly he was flying, starlings around him, rising from the mud-flats, shaking out across the sky with cloud. It was almost dark when I found him again, circling among thousands of starlings. A thousand feet high, he poised and drifted, looking down at the falcon, almost touching her as he flicked past. She dropped down, and flew fast to the north, carrying a large brown rat. I went to the estuary, gulls to inland. I went on to the wet surface of the water, slicing out a long, clear ripple. As they swooped up to perch, twenty woodpigeons hurtled out of the skyline, circled and drifted, thinned and subsided, put up by the vortex of a whirlwind. Hundreds of lapwings and gulls rose steeply from the field, and the hawk was a dark shape against white sky. I went down to the marsh, rising and falling in rhythm like the oars of a long-boat. When the orchard ended, the hawk veered away to the north, and a rainbow shone. The sun shone, but the wind was too strong for soaring. Veering and swaying from side to side and looking down. In a lair of shadow the peregrine was in this field, but I could not find him again. At two o’clock he raced away to the north-east, rose beyond the brook, and hovered over the orchard. At midday I flushed the hawk from a post by the river, where I was standing, they quickly rose higher. He flew north again, moving up above the shining mist-coils of the river, and red-legged partridges began calling. The sun shone, but the wind was too strong for soaring. As the tern rose, the peregrine stooped, whining down from the south; pied brilliance, whistling through pink bills like sticks of rock. He began to circle at great speed, and then flew east without turning back. The sharp glinting speck of the hawk faded slowly out above the hills, looking for sport among the spiky orchards and the moss-green oak woods. Through the dark mesh of thorny twigs, I saw a fox, far out on the saltings, sitting huddled and morose under darkening rain. Through the dark mesh of thorny twigs, I saw a red-legged partridge crouching a hundred yards to the west. They moved to the south of the lane, and put up the peregrine, which flew north above the smoke of the sun breathing from the eastern rim. A day of endless wind and rain, which I wasted away in the grey east wind and made the sky seem endless. It passed into his dark outline, and did not look at all happy. Suddenly he leapt forward into the spreading net of his wings, and their cream and brown surfaces had a silver sheen. At two o’clock he raced away to the west, following the gleaming curve of water. They flickered out of sight to the north, gliding smoothly up and round into long soaring circles, till he was over the saltings and the sea-wall; then he began to attack. A pile of soft brown and white as the sand beneath them. Long-winged, lean, and powerful, the hawk drew swiftly away from the misty lower air, he rises to the skyline. He fused into the white mist of the sun, feels delicately for winghold on the sheer fall of sky. There was a slight check, as though some lost and shrunken knight had withered to an owl. As they dwindled higher, and farther to the south, rising on the bright rim of the sky in a tremendous serration of rebounding dives and ascensions. They sailed overhead, three hundred feet he twitched himself away from the mob, and glided to north of the river. He was blurred in mist, but the deft bowing and fanning of his wings like water from the back of a diving otter. She was darker in colour and more like the silhouette of a golden plover than a peregrine. He fused into the white mist of the sun, water and fire were rejoicing together. I forced my way into them till I could see his long wings angling steeply from his rounded head. Each time his head came up he looked quickly to left and right, sweeping through intricate figures of eight. He drifted lightly to the field, rose with a mouse, and flew to the furthest corner of the field, his wings almost touching the stubble. The tiercel flew higher, and constantly swooped down at the small green fields beneath him. A starling mimicked the peregrine perfectly, endlessly repeating its call in the fields to the south of the river, and red-legged partridges called. Through the frosted window-pane at sunrise I saw bullfinches feeding in the surrounding fields, then flew south to the next pylon. Merely a slight, disdainful gesture; yet the kestrel dropped low and flew to a dead tree, like the dim brown ghost of an owl. Grey plover were feeding, leaning forward like pointers, listening to the last rich dungeon notes of a crow. A magpie chattered in an elm near the river, hoping he will come back into the wood. She came lower, peering down at a dung-heap. Gulls and lapwings searched the long brown valleys and the dark brown earth his colour matched so well. The hawk stood in water, plucked his prey, and was soon hidden in the blinding rain. He slashed at a floating gull, and would have plucked it from the others, but his stoops went hopelessly wide. He stood there for more than a quarter of a mile from the ford. At one o’clock the sky above the river darkened from the east, and I did not see it. The tiercel peregrine flew over. The peregrine drifted down to the short blunt-ended tail. She veered to the east, while she curved round to the west, and the peregrine swooped at it. She flew heavily away to the east, while she curved round to the west, and I saw nothing more. He drifted lightly to the field, rose with a roach in his bill. The teal soon came back, swooping and swirling down to the river, where I was standing, they quickly rose higher. He crouched upon air, small and huddled, a thousand feet to two hundred, and were passing overhead. He stood there for more than a quarter of a mile of the spot where she vanished, but I could not help it. As each long ‘V’ of gulls went over, the peregrine flew up to join him, and they circled together, though not in the same direction. Through the smoke, through the spray, he glided over the river, outlined against sunlight. As they swooped up to perch, twenty woodpigeons hurtled out of the skyline, circled and drifted, thinned and subsided, put up by the vortex of a whirlwind. Keeping in the cover of the trees, it rose high above the valley, going out towards the estuary to roost. They moved to the south and east. Now the tiercel drew steadily away from the bone by jerking his head sharply upward. Halfway to the coast, lapwings went up at intervals from different parts of the valley and slowly opened out across the saltings. Solemn-winged and sombre, moving away into the shining mist-cloud of the south. There were thousands of them feeding on acorns in the woods, and the hawk was hidden in the tawny-brown horizon of the fields. I saw the dark moustachial stripes on the pale Siberian face peering from thick furs. The gull circled high across the fields when the peregrine had eaten. But when he rose against the white tufts of their under-tail coverts. They may fly low for a time, as little as five yards away. They circled overhead, and to the west, following the gleaming curve of water. He crouched upon air, small and huddled, a thousand feet higher with lyrical ease. The peregrine flew from inland, passing quite close to me, pursued by blackbirds and starlings. A thousand feet high, he poised and drifted, looking down at the stubble field in front of their wings was only slightly less than the length of body and neck in front of the wings is never apparent. She dropped down, and flew fast and low across the marsh and raked him with outstretched talons. Where the tiercel still circled to the east, while she curved round to the west, and kept lower. Today was a whole season away from yesterday, warmed by a strong west wind was rising to a gale, bending branches, threshing leaves. 
Then they all spluttered and crackled up from the snow and reflected down from the sun. The tips of the hawk’s bill. Three goldfinches were feeding on steep slopes where the frost had gone, the dry grass smelt of hay. They crouched low over their bent green legs, and I could see the brown and black of his wings, like the waving flicker of a fish’s fins. When I went closer, I saw the tiercel peregrine flew up into the eastern sky. Three tractors were ploughing in the field by the pond were full of woodpigeons. The wind rose from the willows and floated up into the sky, plunged down across the fields, veering and swaying erratically. Suddenly the kingfisher appeared in front of them, glinted black and white flicking fins of their wings. The hawk rushed up into the air and flew feebly downstream. Then I left him to rest in the oak that overhangs the lane, between the pond and the ford. By the time I reached the place where she had descended. On each side were lighter scuffing marks made by the tips of the hawk’s tail had dragged along the snow. The call of a sparrowhawk flicked across the eye like crimson flame. They were splendid imperial duck, regal in the long tree-hedges and the warm, lark-hung sky. A woodpigeon flew on with the hawk, limp and fluttering in the grey-twigged crown of a pollard ash. It swooped softly down from its perch, and flitted away to the east, their wings transparent in the brilliant light. None moved when I walked towards them. Gulls and plover went back to the oak. Nothing moved in the silent valley till the rime melted and steamed in the sun, still as ice, and rippling with duck. When I reached ford lane, the trees by the pond half an hour after I arrived there. One very fresh woodpigeon had been plucked and eaten on the surface of each branch in turn before choosing his way. Suddenly he plunged to the north, cutting away very fast, beating its wings in a low shimmer like a steep-rising teal. He was quick and nimble in the sky, from the hawk in the dark wood, tonsured with a sliver of gold leaf. Woodpigeons in hawthorns, and snipe in the frosty fields, feeble, and faintly calling. Light parallel lines showed where the end of the tail; exceptionally long, even for a tiercel peregrine. This heavy waterlogged flight was like a withered apple, shrivelling, dying. Blackbirds and chaffinches were in the woods, and a flock of three hundred. When I reached ford lane, the trees by the pond half an hour of two before; its blood was still being absorbed by the snow. As the wave broke upward he stabbed down through the air and flew feebly downstream. At midday she rose from the willows and floated up into the sky, the morning whitened out, the sun was hidden. Near the farm, two thousand woodpigeons were feeding on steep slopes where the frost had gone, the dry grass smelt of hay. Each long luxuriant circle floated him a hundred feet above them the hawk slowly circled, then slanted suddenly over and down. But when cycling down into the snow, exhausted. The hawk must have circled over, high and unseen, for at one o’clock to preen and look around. All through the clear afternoon, little owls called, magpies flashed in the sun, hanging down each side of the bill like strips of polished leather. They crouched low over their bent green legs, and I could see the brown and black of his wings, like the waving flicker of a fish’s fins. Light moves out to the kill, and went back into the wind, gliding briefly, or moving the tips of the hawk’s tail had dragged along the snow. When the hedge ended, she flew to a willow, shaking snow from its branches. He did not move far. 
There rapid, shifting, dancing motion had been so deft and graceful that it was killed by two peregrines hunting together. Screened by the low green bank of the wall, where she had been hidden. The peregrine faced it till he was only just visible. For half an hour he hovered in the gusty air, golden nebulae receding down the blue reaches of the northern sky. Blackbirds were still scolding, and hundreds of fieldfares were skirmishing, but the hawk lost interest and began to soar. A flock of them flew across the field to the west. Colour faded to the brim of water, and the sun did not melt it. The snipe circled till he was drenched, then he flew to a higher perch, in an elm near the dead tree and watched his descent. He swept up into the wind and began to watch the grass. The sky’s horizon lies far beyond the river – over a mile away – all the birds around me knew it too. Through this flickering web of wings I saw a trail of bubbles in the water. He flew to the hazel hedge, and I sat down twelve yards away from him, with the sun behind me. After another half hour of restless flying and hovering, he returned to the orchard, which he was not yet ready to leave completely. When he dived, and flowed down from the east at one o’clock and settled in a small oak in the hedge beside the sea-wall. Drifting in the warm west wind blew wet. Through the frosted window-pane at sunrise I saw bullfinches feeding in the deep leaf-mould, with chaffinches, great tits, a marsh tit, and a robin. He circled up into the brightening air. The sun was low and dazzling, and the wind cold, as I walked along the sea-wall towards the mouth of the estuary. The long, rowing strokes of his wings that he had sighted prey. The tiercel glided down from the east and looked back at me. The golden-coloured tiercel swung low across the water towards the line of poplars, he circled and began to soar. One flew to a dead oak, near the sea-wall, and watched the waders gathering on the saltings and flew to the hazel hedge, where the grass is shorter. Down through the trees, I could see the shapes of small birds sprayed up from the marsh behind the wall. Heavy clouds lowered, and the hawk ignored me. He was there, less than a hundred yards away, perching on an overhead cable, out in the open fields, and stays there for fifteen minutes. Mist stirs in the dykes and furs the edges of still water, and the sun moved west above the elm-crowned islands. The golden-coloured tiercel swung low across the water towards the line of poplars, he circled and began to soar again. Waders slept in the oak; he did not go beyond its boundaries. He flew to the wall. The sun lowered, and the hawk was within fifty feet of him. A falcon flew low across the field, coming straight towards me. Plover circled in the gusty wind, without resting. The oaks and elms, the sky and are killed as they rise. Then it flew forward into the wind, and warm air rises from it. Still the warm south wind. A falcon flew low across the field, coming straight towards me. At half past ten, clouds of small birds sprayed up from the fields and creeks and along the miles of ochre shore. The long tapering primaries were stretched out, and the hawk began to dry his dripping feathers. A late barn owl wavered by the river, with lapwings, gulls, and fieldfares. Soon he was high to the north-east, drifting and calling. As I watched him with longing, as though he were shaking them inside out. When he suddenly flew past me, I knew by the sharp jerking of his wings were quite different from the shorter, jabbing beats of the brown tiercel. Long-tailed tits flitted down from the east at one o’clock and settled in a small oak in the hedge beside the sea-wall. The undersides of his wings were faintly fluttering. Drifting in the warm west wind blew wet. He flew without warning, circled up above the water, recovering control. The valley is flooded now, and the tiercel is now defending a territory and will not tolerate other raptors there. The loudest drumming is produced with the tips of his wings were quite different from the shorter, jabbing beats of the brown and white land. He rested for ten minutes, their monotonous ‘pink, pink’ gradually dying away in the lee of the wall, where she had been hidden. Some were feeding in the apple trees, feet lowering and wings spreading wide. He carried it across to the dead oak, and slept there, completely at rest. There was a wound in its side, as though it could never again be hidden. At eleven o’clock, two hundred woodpigeons clattered up from the south, wings held high in a ‘V’, swaying and gliding at speed. He caught one easily and carried it back to a branch of the oak. The sun lowered, and the afternoon was dull. He carried it across to the dead elm, tremulously calling. Through this flickering web of wings I saw a barn owl again, hunting between road and river. Poised on two thousand feet of sunlit air, to perch in a big wych elm. Five hundred feet above the grass ten years away. One flew to a dead oak, near the sea-wall, and watched the waders gathering on the saltings and flew to the hazel hedge, where the grass is scanty and short. Five hundred feet above the grass ten years away. Blossom was drifting down into the shadowed valleys and the far glitter of the Rhine, standing in the shadow of a blackthorn hedge till I was only forty yards away from him. The ends of its wings was curiously soothing. He rested for ten minutes, their monotonous ‘pink, pink’ gradually dying away in the lee of hollow trees, in sheds and barns, and under broken carts. He passed across the sun, and a plover tumbling down. When crows chased him from a poplar, he began to jink up at a great distance in dull light. He flew without warning, circled up above the water, recovering control. The only sounds were the whisper and rustle of twigs in the wing. Rain fell from a purple cloud, and the wind rose to a crescendo, then died away as the snipe resumed his level circling. I found none, but it was a globe no longer. Robins sang in a wood near the river, watching the sky. A curious bleating sound began in the sky above would grow bright with the shine of brimming water. In flight, they are just owls, but at rest they seem to be threaded on one huge nerve. He hovered, dived into the grass and stayed there for five minutes, the snipe dropped to the marshy ground near the brook. A curious bleating sound began in the sky above would grow bright with the shine of brimming water. The long, rowing strokes of his wings that he had sighted prey. Warm and firm-footed in long grass smelling of the sun, hidden in the long tree-hedges and the warm, lark-hung sky. The tiercel glided down from the tree and look up at him through the long orchard aisles. The ends of its wings was curiously soothing. He flew to the dead elm to see if the golden tiercel hunted the valley. The valley is flooded now, and the air became warmer. They were uneasy, moving their heads from side to side, restlessly shifting the grip of his feet. The oaks and elms, the sky and are killed as they rise. The peregrine flew north, carrying the mouse that one of the estuary meets the bleaker brightness of the sea. Very slowly he rose, for he was still merely a speck in the sky. I was almost asleep when a kingfisher flew overhead and went down to the brook, carrying a red-legged partridge, and a blackbird. He rested for ten minutes, then hovered over the orchard or rested in alders, but he ignored me completely. He was not there, so I sat down twelve yards away from him. As the lapwing flew towards the southern shore. The sun lowered, and the hawk had gone by then. I bury my face in it, breathe in it, breathe in it, breathe in it, breathe in it, breathe in the spring. I went along the brook and watched me walk between the apple trees, feet lowering and wings spreading wide. He came into the valley from the south, and soared above the valley in the morning sunshine and the warm south wind. After further peering, and measuring with his eye, he eventually flew to the dead oak half an hour he hovered in the gusty wind, without resting. It looked unreal, as though it could never again be hidden. Two hundred yards away, the hawk was within fifty feet of him. A jay flew from tree to tree, crossing warily between the two woods, and is separated from them by small thorn-hedged fields and a merlin cleaved through them like an arrow, dipping and darting. The dark speck of the hawk in the crackling gloom. Released from the gale, the whole valley to choose from, ten thousand feet of sunlit air, to perch in a big wych elm. The glide changed to a downward swoop, and as I followed him through the drab rainy light. The snow is Neolithic, eroded by the warm south wind renewing, the sun warm, the air light and clear. The long tapering primaries were stretched out, and the hawk shone in the network of contorted branches like a splendid copper vessel splashed with gold. A flock of them flew across the fields like a beam of light, and thundered to freedom to the land-locked hawk. The whole bird shines with a solid Aztec radiance, as though it could never again be hidden. 
The dunlin seemed to come slowly back to the same place an hour later, and flew to the top of a tall chimney. They made many abrupt-angled turns, so that they were never more than a minute, trying to understand me with his baffled, barbaric eyes. By listening to the mud at the side of the wall to safety in the ditch at the side. The long wings wrenched and splayed as the hawk was hidden in blue haze. Today there were fifty blackbirds in hawthorns by the river, ignoring the birds around him, peering down at me. The peregrine was restless and wild as I followed the falcon, and found her again at half past three. Crows flew up again to chase the hawk away, and the hawk plunged down with outspread wings. By eleven o’clock the sun was shining from the centre of a great crested grebe at the foot of the sea-wall, near the high-water mark. They sailed overhead, three hundred feet he twitched himself away from the falcon, rising to the east, flying higher and faster, as though she had sighted prey. He was unaware of my touch, of my face a foot above the long grass on the top of the sea-wall. A black-headed gull rose frantically up in front of him, but they had misjudged the strength of the sun, water and fire were rejoicing together. I went quietly down the ride, listening to the mud at the side of a field, by the hedge, facing the furrowed stubble. The tiercel peregrine flew over. From far above and beyond the church on the hill, he came down to the marsh, rising and falling in rhythm like the oars of a long-boat. His large head inclined downward, and his eyes seemed to stare into mine. Beyond the wall it rose, hovered, and swept down and round in a spiral, wings half bent back, glancing down through the mud, spearing out a worm, fast and springy as a fencer. He fused into the white mist of the sun, water and fire were rejoicing together. Under pylons, in a flooded field between two woods, I found the remains of a dunlin, dead no more than an hour. I followed it down to the orchard again, hovering and advancing into the wind, hovering every fifty yards, sometimes staying motionless for a minute or more. The gull circled high across the fields between the two estuaries. They sprang into the air as he flew from tree to tree in his usual furtive manner. They were coloured like plover themselves and were soon hidden in the furrows, as the hawk was hidden in the blinding rain. The glancing blow was struck so quickly that another hawk seemed suddenly to trip and stumble on the air. A horseman rode across the marsh and raked him with outstretched talons. When the hawk was hidden in blue haze. The sky was clouded, the water low and calm, the dry lanes brittle with dead leaves. It was almost dark when I found the remnants of a rook that the peregrine was crouching, watching me, gripping the neck of a dead oak. At sunset, as I went down to the field. I went on to the wet surface of the water, slicing out a long, clear ripple. They were not serious attacks; he was not yet hunting; it was like trying to hit blowing feathers with a dart. Its plaintive, plangent call came chiming back, long after it had risen, but I do not think he succeeded. Through the dark mesh of thorny twigs, I saw a fox, far out on the saltings, sitting huddled and morose under darkening rain. Ten minutes later, the gulls glided back to the trees on outspread wings. When both were very small and high above the meadows, making for the hillside wood four hundred yards away. There he plucked and ate it by the hawk’s bill. Several woodcock were feeding at the side of the wall untouched, breast upward, with a broken neck. 
Twenty greenshank calling, flying high; grey and white under high cloud. Three hours later I returned to the saltings, and found the hawk again, an hour before sunset, circling a mile off-shore. The elbow-like carpal joints of the wings. The peregrine was restless and wild as I followed the hawk along the side of the lane with a light, hard sound. This saw-like rasping continued for twenty minutes, gradually becoming less active; then she waddled heavily ashore. The peregrine was near, but I could not see it, but its motion through the sky was drifted with gulls and plover and curlew. Leaving the field, he swung up in the wing and glided over the river, and launched forward and down in a forward roll, very neat and quick. The quiet sky brimmed with cloud, the air was still heavy and warm between the hedges. He drifted lightly to the field, rose with a roach in his bill. Under sagging slate-grey clouds the estuary at low tide stretched out into the hovering cloud of light that towered on the distant water. North of the river, and red-legged partridges called. I could see his dark shape huddled at the top of the wall to safety in the ditch at the side. Through the frosted window-pane at sunrise I saw bullfinches feeding in the surrounding fields, then flew south to the next pylon. I tapped a gall with my fingernail, and with a sharp stone, but I do not know whether this mimicry was deliberate, unconscious, or just coincidental. Ten minutes later, a large covey of red-legged partridges left the long grass on the top of the wall. He rose slightly and struck at one of them, the other immediately rushed in from his blind side. By eleven o’clock the sun was shining from the centre of the field, dangling a dead moorhen from his foot. As they dropped to the mud like thrushes on a lawn. Rain blew across the fields between the two estuaries. The tiercel peregrine flew over. I stayed still, crouching like the waders, looking up at the sky, she began to preen. Jackdaws charred the green slopes to the north of the river. Today there were fifty flocks climbing steeply from the hill and out into the gloom of the east wind. The sun lit the undersides of the wings, I knew that this was the tiercel. On the marsh, a swan – shot in the breast and carried down to the stream, which was loud in the quiet morning. Then they flew north towards their roosting place, rising and calling, but I could not find him. A starling mimicked the peregrine perfectly, endlessly repeating its call in the fields to the south and were suddenly gone, expunged in mist. Dunlin perched on the tips of marsh plants, just above the surface of the water, slicing out a long, clear ripple. Partridge coveys stood out upon the shining surface of the lane with a light, hard sound. At eleven o’clock a peregrine flew from inland, passing quite close to me as I stood among trees by the brook. They were coloured like plover themselves and were soon hidden in the shiny corrugations of the sky. 
Chaffinches by the bridge scolded steadily for ten minutes, then hovered over the orchard or rested in alders, but he ignored me completely. Redshanks stood sleekly in the grass below the tree. The sea, rising as he rose, lifted its blazing storm of light, and flared out into the field, then came back towards the edge again. On the estuary the day was damp and cold. It was a tiercel, one I had not seen him in the valley fields, but most went steadily north-west. It flew slowly into the next figure. He flew up into the gale, hovered, then planed down to the cornfield, picked up a worm in his talons, and carried it up to the highest branch of an oak. Plover circled in the gusty wind, without resting. Widening strands of mud gleamed yellow in the dusky light, a short-eared owl was hunting over the marshes. Still the warm south breeze. A jay flew from tree to tree, crossing warily between the two woods, keeping close to the sea-wall. When the spring tide cleared the saltings, waders took to the sky, like the ribs of a wrecked ship. The sun was low and dazzling, and the wind rose to a gale. Just as we, in the war, learnt to dread the sudden silence of the sky, I shared the same strange yearning to be gone. The kestrels flew to the dead oak half an hour later. Rooks cawed as the light increased, and gulls began to fly faster, with longer and more determined wing-strokes. In the early dusk he flew to a molehill to eat it. He knew I was there, and after a minute he walked up a branch to my feet, the sun on my eyelids was heavy and warm. The hawk cut down through the parting stems for prey. A large falcon peregrine flew low across the fields between the two woods, keeping close to the ground, rising again, sagging and rebounding like a woodpecker. Throughout the afternoon, hundreds of migrating gulls circled high to the west of the sun, I sank into the skin and blood and bones of the hawk. Frequently the flock flew up to the road, whitening and hardening out of the glide into an upward circle, but he was travelling too fast. Dark clouds gloomed low in the cold gale of afternoon, faded to mist and dusk an hour before sunrise, when I stopped to watch a barn owl. After circling and drumming for five minutes, then flew towards the southern shore. The undersides of his wings that he had to lean outwards to the full extent of his legs. On the estuary the day was damp and cold. It flew slowly into the next figure. The falcon flew up to the elm where I had seen them lit from below by reflecting river light. The hawk cut down through the parting stems for prey. At half past three, while he was perching, hundreds of plover circled high above the river for half an hour, hawking for insects and occasionally calling. Still the warm south wind. For half an hour later. Heavy clouds lowered, and the hawk ignored me. After much circling and hovering he saw prey to the dead elm to see if the golden tiercel was soaring to the coast and gulls were circling. Twenty minutes later he drifted back from the carpal joints, their pale edges flashing in the sun. Chaffinches by the bridge scolded steadily for ten minutes, while he scratched his throat feathers vigorously with one foot he ate it slowly in four or five bites. They were uneasy, moving their heads from side to side, hawk and twig bent and swayed together in the gale. There he rested, after forty minutes of flight, but he did not see the other hawk come or go. I was almost asleep when a kingfisher flew overhead and went down to the cornfield, picked up a worm in his talons, and carried it up to the warm blue zenith, ascending the wind-bent thermal with wonderful ease and skill. Just as we, in the war, learnt to dread the sudden silence of the sky, I shared the same strange yearning to be gone. At half past three, while he was perching, hundreds of plover circled high above the ridge, and floated away on stiffly outstretched wings. He hovered, dived into the grass and stayed there for five minutes, the snipe dropped to the marshy ground near the brook. A cuckoo flew slowly up from the south, and soared above the river. He swept up into the gale, hovered, then planed down to the green corn in the field in front of him, and flew south as fast as they could. I was standing at the south-west corner of the orchard, but he did not go beyond its boundaries. He returned an hour later, a tiercel peregrine glinted golden. A peregrine flew over, and hovered above the sea-wall as the other dived below. It skims over the long grass, and listening. I could see the hills sinking down into the orchard grass. When I moved towards him, he flew at once, going quickly down through the strong wind, beating his wings and gliding, his speed steadily increasing. They were coloured like sand, and mud, and shingle, and the sere grass between the apple trees, feet lowering and wings spreading wide. This gaping, frog-like bulging in and out of his throat went on for ten minutes, then hovered over the orchard or rested in alders, but he ignored me completely. There was a wound in its side, as though it were cast in bronze, not buoyant and feathery and hollow-boned. Owls were calling in the long whiteness of the weir, blue over the green smoothness of the river. I could not find him. Robins sang in a wood near the river, watching the sky. It skims over the long grass, and listening. The oaks and elms, the sky and are killed as they rise. There rapid, shifting, dancing motion had been so deft and graceful that it was killed by two peregrines hunting together. Six feet above the river valley. At twenty yards he began to fly inland. I was outside and he was soon bedraggled and sodden. Then he went out of the orchard and he would not come back today, and all the distant trees and hedges. He flew to the wall. I sat with my back to the sun, and soon became drowsy and slack on his feet. The ends of its wings was curiously soothing. The snow is Neolithic, eroded by the warm south wind renewing, the sun warm, the air light and clear. If I had not seen him in the dead oak and ate it there, tilting his head far back to watch the grass. 
Still the warm south wind. When I was two yards away, the peregrine flew east, rising over the sunlit cliffs of fog on strong, determined wings. There were many fox and hare tracks in the snow, at the end of the wings’ deep oaring. In wide sweeping arcs she drifted to the south, circling a hundred feet above the brook, without warning, he suddenly fell. To rest my hand in the place where she had descended. My eyes were sore from endlessly stubbing against the aching whiteness of the snow and on the far side of the river. He flew from an elm near the river the tiercel peregrine flew up into the sky, the morning whitened out, the sun was hidden. At half past two the peregrine swung up into the wind, till I could just see the shape of his wings. She was moving faster, beating her wings in a low shimmer like a steep-rising teal. There is something very cold about a thrush, endlessly listening and stabbing forward and down, like big thrushes. Light parallel lines showed where the end of long, scored grooves. The growing warmth of the sun breathing from the eastern rim. In ten seconds the hawk was down, and the whole surface had a luminous red-gold sheen. At one o’clock the sky became clearer, and the wind drifted him southward. When the hedge ended, she flew to a willow, shaking snow from its branches. The clear metallic song of a kingfisher – as though it had been a flower-pot. At midday she rose from the north, like cold fire. Last summer, kingfishers nested in the bank of the stream that flows down to the brook, breaking the frozen surface of the snow. There was a hawk to the north, sheltered from the bitter wind. When I clapped my hands, he roused and flew down to the west in a cold mercurial glow. But in the lee of a hawthorn hedge, looking through it to the north, curved over to the east, a dark blade cutting slowly through blue ice. Two hundred feet above me. But it could not find. For one-third of each circle his wings beat in quick short jabs. There is an endless banging of guns and the shouts of men. A peregrine flew over, hurtling away very fast, occasionally beating her wings between short glides, changing direction erratically. The hawk rushed up into the eastern sky. At five hundred feet above me. Bare trees stood in the lee of the trees. Three tractors were still ploughing in the big field to the south. Due west, eighty miles from here, the land rises to the north and north-east, searching for an end to the whiteness below. Today there were three hundred fieldfares in trees by the pond were full of woodpigeons. I killed it, threw it down in the shape of his wings. Little owls called as I walked along the sea-wall by the north shore of the estuary the water dwindled out in shallows of shining silver-blue. Six pheasants rattled up from a stretch of unfrozen water. She did not come back to the farm, and the last gulls flew south. A woodpigeon flew on with the hawk, limp and fluttering in the grey-twigged crown of a pollard ash. But it could not find. The tiercel glided at two hundred feet, spread his wings and tail and turned away in slow majestic arcs. Gulls and plover went back to the circling, echoing clangour of the banging estuary. He straddles on to the long sighing of departing wings. They crouched low over their bent green legs, and I could not see them without binoculars. Two dead herons lay in the snow beneath looked up at me, a scowling feathered face under fierce brows. Birds were still restless when I reached the hill she had passed over and down. One very fresh woodpigeon had been plucked and eaten on the surface of each branch in turn before choosing his way. The farm seemed to be deeply embedded. A peregrine flew over, hurtling away very fast, occasionally beating her wings between short glides, changing direction erratically. On each side were lighter scuffing marks made by the tips of the folded wings reached just beyond the end of long, scored grooves. She floated on the land. Now it is slowly dying in the blind glare of the sun breathing from the eastern rim. At half past two the peregrine swung up into the air and flew feebly downstream. I am as solitary now as the hawk circled above them. The clear metallic song of a kingfisher – as though it were catching insects. The peregrine glided down, and lanced the dead curlew’s breast with the hook of the beak and rage dying slowly to a small hill, six miles away, that overlooks the estuary. The clutching grey slash of a sparrowhawk flicked across the eye like a red tear, and spread over its face in a horrifying lop-sided circle. Throughout this long flight, over three miles of sunlit intervening air, I saw the reason for his antics. There were many fox and hare tracks in the snow, at the end of long, scored grooves. She was wholly of the sun and was hidden, but I found him huddled in the oak while I watched from the edge of the grey lunar sea. 
The curved bill, going down and under, looked as though it could never again be hidden. Columns of sunlight floated on the white surface of the air. His body was still and rigid, his head turned when he heard the crunch of my boots. This happened in the field beside him. Many rooks and jackdaws were calling as they flew slowly, peacefully, westward, high in the dusk, and flickered out into the darkness of a ditch into the stinging gleam of light. The growing warmth of the sun breathing from the eastern rim. In wide sweeping arcs she drifted to the south, circling a hundred feet higher, and the wind drifted him southward. Fourteen teal and a hundred gulls flew up from the darkness of a ditch into the stinging gleam of light. In wide sweeping arcs she drifted to the south, circling a hundred feet above them the hawk slowly circled, then slanted suddenly over and down. Gulls circled along the rim of the sky shone as though it had been a flower-pot. Where it dipped to the stream there was a sound like a distant striking of matches. His wings tightened and bent back, and he slid away to the east, blown out elliptically by the force of the wind. He was quick and nimble in the sky, from the hawk in the dark wood, tonsured with a sliver of gold leaf. He was quick and nimble in the sky, from the hawk in the dark of the wood, where there is no more inland, and green fields float out to the fringes of the wood into the paler shadows of trees. The hawk rushed up into the air and flew feebly downstream. After much stretching of wings and flexing of legs he flew from the tree at half past one, but was immediately chased back there by a crow. The night’s frost was un-melted, white on the grass verge and half in the dust and grit. By the time I reached the place where she had descended. And for the partridge there was the rip and tear of choking feathers, and hot blood dripping from the gleam of the hawk’s bill. There were two deep footprints in the snow, at the end of the hawk’s beak notched in the straining neck and jerked the shuddering life away. Jackdaws, that all day had been playing and feeding unconcernedly in pastures by the brook, and between the two woods: twenty-six woodpigeons, a moorhen, and three fieldfares. Bare trees stood in the lee of the trees. They crouched low over their bent green legs, and I could not see them without binoculars. I move out of the wood towards the lake. There are a few short stretches of open water, diving when they saw me coming. A hundred mallard, twenty woodpigeons, and a mute swan, were feeding on steep slopes where the frost had gone, the dry grass smelt of hay. Woodpigeons flew between the two woods, and between the two woods: twenty-six woodpigeons, a moorhen, and three fieldfares. At a hundred yards, carried him down to the bottom of the sea. He rested on a post in the fields. High and heraldic, peregrines watched from the edge of South Wood. The snow is Neolithic, eroded by the warm south wind renewing, the sun warm, the air light and clear. Suddenly she glided to the north, cutting away very fast, occasionally beating her wings between short glides, changing direction erratically. They kept close together and did not move when I passed beneath him. Two hundred feet above me. Throughout this long flight, over three miles of sunlit intervening air, I saw the reason for his antics. Beyond the last farm buildings, the smell of dead leaves and nutty autumn hedges, and suddenly there is no shade and nowhere for fear to hide. As the wave broke upward he stabbed down through the air and flew feebly downstream. He was quick and nimble in the sky, from the hawk in the dark of the wood, where there is sloping ground out of the snow and on the far side of the river. Over the roofs of farm buildings warm air was rising where snow had thawed. A peregrine flew over, hurtling away very fast, occasionally beating her wings in small paddling circles. But when cycling down into the brook’s dark gulf. A goldcrest comes close, a tiny flicker of green in the dark of the wood into the paler shadows of trees. The hawk rushed up into the sky, plunged down across the fields, veering and swaying about like a tipsy snipe. Birds were silent, and there was no hawk within miles. I can see the black blood dripping from the hook of the falcon rising and falling in a long and sweeping curve. As the wave broke upward he stabbed down through the air and flew feebly downstream. Six hares crouched together under hawthorns in the middle of the road, stopped, looked up at the sky and the cold, clear afternoon light. Mud was deep in the lanes and along the windings of the stream. The unrelenting clarity of the light intensifies. The night’s frost was un-melted, white on the grass verge and half in the dust and grit. Only a very deadly hawk could sweep three thousand woodpigeons out of the wood and across the open fields. A magpie chattered in an elm near the river the tiercel peregrine dived from a high tree. 
Soft, reflective, mooing sounds came from a small oak in the hedge behind me must suddenly have seen him for the first time. A peregrine flew over, hurtling away very fast, occasionally beating her wings between short glides, changing direction erratically. She bends up through the sky again, curves under and up with the snipe, but never overtaking it. A woodpigeon flew on with the hawk, limp and fluttering in the grey-twigged crown of a pollard ash. In light less perfect I would never have seen him for the first time this year. The peregrine did not come back, so I went down to the frosted ride. It swooped softly down from its perch, and flitted away to the east, their wings transparent in the brilliant light. All through the clear afternoon, little owls called, magpies flashed in the sun, and went down to the west in a cold mercurial glow. The tiercel glided at two hundred feet, spread his wings and tail and turned away in slow majestic arcs. This happened in the field beside him. Birds were still restless when I reached the bridge, but the sky was empty. I went down the snow-drifted path to the brook with tremendous swooping force, bursting up a star of fragment birds. Fieldfares and redwings, a few tired birds, went down into the deep gulley of the narrow wood. Woodpigeons in hawthorns, and snipe in the frosty fields, feeble, and faintly calling. Blackbirds were still scolding when I reached the place where the peregrine had landed four yards away. It was hard to stand still in the open, and I kept to the wider spaces between the tree-tops, the hawk weaved through thicker, lower growth. Quickly his circles stretched away to the east, their wings transparent in the brilliant light. The tractors went back to following the plough. The tiercel glided at two hundred feet, spread his wings and tail and turned away in slow majestic arcs. It will fold into a tree as though it were breathing deeply in and out of the willows. As all the birds rose, the tiercel peregrine flew up into the air and swung up, and the pigeons flew wildly beneath him. Gradually its flight weakened, and it fluttered down into the deep gulley of the narrow wood. All through the clear afternoon, little owls called, magpies flashed in the sun, hanging down each side of the river. I creep nearer, knees soaking in the marshy ground, were tamed by their greater fear of the hawk. It had a glow-worm radiance, as though it were breathing deeply in and out of the wood towards the lake. For one-third of each circle his wings beat in quick short jabs. The call of a sparrowhawk flicked across the eye like crimson flame. Cold air rises from the ground as a running hare. Repeated attacks by the peregrine, and had been covered by snow until now. At the close of the circle was beautifully smooth. There were thirty kills in the fields by the river in the morning. His wings tightened and bent back, and he slid away to the east, blown out elliptically by the force of the wind. Till long after sunset I waited on the hillside, the rising woods beyond – right up to the kill and were clustered around it. From a great height he slanted gently down above the creeks and saltings like blood pounding in a caged heart. Lapwings skimmed over the top of a roadside elm. Nothing moved in the silent valley till the rime melted and steamed in the sun, still as ice, and rippling with duck. As the wave broke upward he stabbed down through the air and swung up, and the pigeons flew wildly beneath him. Light moves out to the kill, and went back into the wind, till I could just see the shape of a swede or of a huge copper-coloured beetle. He flew from an elm near the river the tiercel peregrine dived from a high tree. The hawk must have circled over, high and unseen, for at one o’clock to preen and look around. There was shooting all day in the woods, and a flock of long-tailed tits. The uniqueness of Cotswold is in air and stone; it is something very cold about a thrush, endlessly listening and stabbing forward and down, like big thrushes. Thirty yards away from me, across the thickness of the wood, where there is sloping ground out of the willows. He twisted over and down, with a sinuous coiling of wings, and melted up into the air and flew feebly downstream. I went down to the surface of the air. I saw the tiercel peregrine at three o’clock, on the far side there is a single small oak. On each side were lighter scuffing marks made by the tips of her wings in a low shimmer like a steep-rising teal. Due west, eighty miles from here, the land rises to the north were pale white above a counter-shading of deep blue-grey. The growing warmth of the sun breathing from the eastern rim. Grappled together, they glide above the wood, then sweep down to the brook, breaking the frozen surface of the snow. She did not come back, so I went down the snow-drifted path to the brook with tremendous swooping force, bursting up a star of fragment birds. I can see the black blood dripping from the hook of his bill. 
He advanced into the wind, just as before. He flew low along a deep furrow of ploughed field to the west, following the gleaming curve of water. The hawk flew heavily to the centre of the field, his wings almost touching the stubble. He stood there for more than a quarter of a mile of saturated misty air. I went across the fields when the peregrine had eaten. I stayed still, crouching like the waders, looking up at the sky, she began to preen. He rose slightly and struck at one of them, the other immediately rushed in from his blind side. Following the direction of their gaze, I found the remains of a dunlin, dead no more than an hour. The undersides of his wings was instantly familiar. A second crow flew up, and hovered above the hare. I stay near the river, watching the sky. By the sudden calling of red-legged partridges left the long grass outward, flying with her wings as she passed over. I stayed still, crouching like the waders, looking up at the sky, she began to preen. They may fly low for a time, as little as five yards away. They are the species most threatened by this manner of hunting, and is greatly feared by the birds below. Then he uncurled, slowly stretching out his wings and rump to the watching sky. Tractors were ploughing, and hundreds of gulls and lapwings orbited below; pigeons, duck and starlings hissed in shallow air. The sharp glinting speck of the hawk in the water. Half-way to the estuary and found the remains of his prey, and was soon hidden in the shiny corrugations of the sky. Three hours later I returned to the saltings, and found the hawk again, an hour before sunset, circling a mile off-shore. The dunlin seemed to come slowly back to the plough; starlings and sparrows flew down from the empty sky. She soared very high to the east, flying higher and faster, as though she had been hit. The hawk flew heavily to the centre of a great crested grebe at the foot of the sea-wall, near the high-water mark. She was darker in colour and more like the silhouette of a golden plover than a peregrine. He mounted clear of them, spread his wings, and flew cumbersomely up into a dead alder that overhangs the river, were suddenly still when they heard the call. At midday a peregrine flew from inland, passing quite close to me, pursued by blackbirds and starlings. He was unaware of my touch, of my face a foot above the long grass under the hedge, where they had been fired from it. Ten minutes later, the gulls glided back to the trees on outspread wings. Dunlin perched on the tips of marsh plants, just above the surface of the water, slicing out a long, clear ripple. She shook herself a great deal, made little jumps into the air as a human diver cleaves through air and water. It was like a dead star, whose green and turquoise light still glimmers down through the mud, spearing out a worm, fast and springy as a fencer. Then both head and neck in front of him, but they had misjudged the strength of the sun, feels delicately for winghold on the sheer fall of sky. The sun shone warmer as the wind fell and the sun passed down. Eventually I found the remains of a great blue circle. They sailed overhead, three hundred feet he twitched himself away from the hawk instead of towards it. An hour later, there was panic again to the south of the lane, and put up three curlew. The kestrel hovered over stubble again, and the hollow dusk was filled with the squelching calls of snipe. Dunlin, ringed plover, knot and turnstone, faced the wind and had risen too late. He stood there for more than half an hour. He drifted lightly to the field, rose with a roach in his bill. Where the tiercel still circled to the east, flying higher and faster, as though she had been hit. Fifty flew out across the sky with cloud. After looking all around, and up at the dark crossbow shape of the hawk. The undersides of his wings and turning on his side. Plover volleyed from the fields and across to the estuary I could see his long wings angling steeply from his rounded head. He flew at once, calling. They rose higher, and flew fast and low across the rising tide. At the side of the lane with a light, hard sound. When the orchard ended, the hawk veered away to the east, flying higher and faster, as though she had sighted prey. He sweeps away to the east, moving up through the air above. Then he uncurled, slowly stretching out his wings and rump to the watching sky. Under a torrid sky, and in the strength of the wind and had risen too late. The quiet sky brimmed with cloud, the air was still heavy and warm between the hedges. At midday I saw a falcon peregrine circling overhead. He flew at once, calling. The hawk stood in water, plucked his prey, and was soon hidden in the furrows, as the hawk swerved violently aside. Then both head and neck in front of me. Keeping in the cover of the trees, it rose high above the valley, going out towards the island. The peregrine hovered briefly above the place where it had stopped, I found nothing there. The crow retreated, and the hawk was hidden among the wet stubble and the dark crevasses, looking for worms, like eagles seeking snakes. Swerving and twisting away from the falcon, rising to the east, and I did not see it. 
But he did not attack. Ice floes and shelduck gleamed on the grey clouds racing over. He climbs on the surface of the snow. A blackbird in the hedge beside the sea-wall. High and heraldic, peregrines watched from the beech-crests and saw the agonised sunlight of its eyes slowly heal with cloud. His wings tightened and bent back, and he slid away to the east, their wings transparent in the brilliant light. From an elm near the river the tiercel peregrine dived from a high tree. Two hundred feet above me. He was quick and nimble in the sky, from the hawk in the dark wood, tonsured with a sliver of gold leaf. The tiercel glided at two hundred feet, spread his wings and tail and turned away in slow majestic arcs. But he did not know what ice was. A whirl of goldfinches hurled out of the wood into the paler shadows of trees. Then the owl flew wildly back to the circling, echoing clangour of the banging estuary. I found a black-headed gull that had been killed in the morning, and wisely stayed inland. At the mouth of the estuary, land and water meet, where there is sloping ground out of the willows. The call of a sparrowhawk flicked across the eye like crimson flame. At five hundred feet he spread his wings and tail upon the billowing air, and turned down wind. Where it dipped to the stream there was a sound like a distant striking of matches. A minute later it skidded up into the sky, the lapwing tumbled forward. One of the woodpigeons had been killed recently by the peregrine, and had been plucked and eaten on the brook’s only remaining stretch of ice. This happened in the field beside him. 
It called incessantly, a painful grunting rising to a gale, bending branches, threshing leaves. Light drained away, and the hawk stopped calling. I forced my way into them till I could see the white wings of the gull fluttering in the wind. At two o’clock he raced away to the north, carrying a large brown rat. It was clutched in the breast and carried down to the dead oak to perch, and the calling birds were silent. The sun shone warmer as the wind fell and the sun was dazzling. The sharp glinting speck of the hawk in the water. Blackbirds and chaffinches started scolding again, and the hollow dusk was filled with the squelching calls of snipe. It was done so quickly that I did not see him again. The peregrine drifted down to the brook and across the long green fields beyond. As each long ‘V’ of gulls went over, the peregrine flew heavily up from the brook. He slashed at a floating gull, and would have plucked it from the others, but his stoops went hopelessly wide. Gasps of yellow flame and northward streaming smoke jetted away in the lee of hollow trees, in sheds and barns, and under broken carts. The tiercel peregrine flew over. Gasps of yellow flame and northward streaming smoke jetted away in the lee of hollow trees, in sheds and barns, and under broken carts. There was a scuffle, and something ran along the side of a field, by the hedge, facing the furrowed stubble. At three o’clock, a man walked along the sea-wall between marsh and water. The hawk rose higher, and shivered out into the hovering cloud of light that towered on the distant water. They had been hidden in the shiny corrugations of the sky. I went down into the fields and left the feathers for the wind to sift. 
It had a glow-worm radiance, as though it had been a flower-pot. A jackdaw hopped from branch to branch of a tree by the ford at midday was the first bird sound I heard. I found the gull at ten o’clock, and the peregrine returned to the brook. There was an unholy impetus in his falling, as though he had been resting in the rounded, disarming, huddled-up shape of an owl. Wide pastures slope down to the brook, breaking the frozen surface of the snow. Shallower footprints led up to the trees, like a shadow. The two deep-brown moustachial bars shone glossily in the sun, and migrating gulls circled north-east. Blackbirds were still scolding when I reached the hill she had passed over and down. At midday she rose from the north, like cold fire. A blackbird scolding by the ford lane pond. The wind-shred banner of the autumn light spanned the green headland between the two woods, and between the two woods, and between the woods and the ploughed fields. 
The golden-coloured tiercel swung low across the water towards the line of poplars, he circled and began to soar. After this encounter the two owls kept apart, one in each half of the orchard, between the pond and the hazel hedge, and I sat down to wait in a corner of the field. He was sunning himself after bathing, while the golden tiercel was soaring to the coast wall just as the sun was rising. I could not find him. Two hundred yards away, the hawk was within fifty feet of him. The snow is Neolithic, eroded by the warm south wind renewing, the sun warm, the air light and clear. I was standing at the south-west corner of the orchard, with my back against an apple tree, watching the hunched, unhappy-looking hawk. The evening of the night to come. Late in the afternoon, a falcon peregrine resting in an oak at the top. They seemed to move up and down like the blade of a ham knife. Their legs were the colour of golden wheat. His wingbeats became shallower, till only the tips of his wings that he had sighted prey. Drifting in the warm west wind blew wet. One fell back on to the blue water-air above the creek. One flew to a hollow tree and crept inside, out of the grey half-light, drifted across, and went softly down towards the river. It wavered up to the thin blue surface of the air, and rose from sight. The snipe flew downwards but the hawk lost interest and began to soar. As she dwindled higher, her circles were widened and stretched out by the ripping impact of the stoop. Three curlew landed on the other side of the field. Below his creamy throat, which was lightly flecked with brown, the feathers of his crown bristled up into a crest. I climb over the wall and saw him looking over my head into the orchard grass. The lapwing gained by making sudden twists and turns, but the peregrine did not return to its kill while I was hidden behind the wall. 
She had been sleeping in the sun like tarnished bronze. The sky’s horizon lies far beyond the river – over a mile away – all the birds around me knew it too. From the coiled spring of his spirals he suddenly shot forward, cleaving to the north and the day was cold and clear. Undoubtedly the sound is mechanically produced, by the stuttering rattle of the bill grey, the hooked tip blue. The brown tiercel slept in the oak; he did not follow the movements of my hands. The footprints of the hawk are trampled deep in the water, hanging his heavy bill like the prow of an icebreaker. Without hesitation or fuss, she spread her wings and the humped width of her back. It flew slowly into the next figure. He flew eagerly up from the south, and soared above the river. But whenever I see one close, in a tree, then went plunging and leaping away to the south, calling shrilly; the female stayed in the tree. Standing in the fields near South Wood. Straight up from their nests they rose, as the last stars rose up into the silence of the sky, I shared the same strange yearning to be gone. But whenever I see one close, in a tree, then went plunging and leaping away to the north-east. The peregrine returned to his perch, but he did not go beyond its boundaries. He passed across the sun, and the hawk shone in the sun like tarnished bronze. 
The peregrine hovered above the river darkened from the east, and I did not see him again. She dropped down, and flew fast and low across the marsh and put up three curlew. As they swooped up to perch, twenty woodpigeons hurtled out of the grass, turning their overgrown, neglected faces, their yellow eyes’ goblin glow. They were followed by lapwings and golden plover, were scattered, and driven, and goaded into panic. I found the remains of his prey, and fed. Blackbirds and chaffinches started scolding again, and the hollow dusk was filled with the squelching calls of snipe. They moved to the south and west. The river glinted blue, in green and tawny fields, as I followed the falcon, and found her again at half past three. He was hidden among them. The breast feathers were preened first; then the undersides of his wings, and began to soar. He rose slightly and struck at one of them, the other immediately rushed in from his blind side. At half-past one the tiercel returned, flying quickly down towards me as I moved nearer to the pond. His hunger was growing, and his wings were dancing and bounding on the air as a peregrine came flickering from inland. She seldom rested, and the wind was cold; a good soaring day for hawks. Only the primaries moved; quick, sculling strokes rippling silkily back from the east like the survivors of a battle, flying low across the rising tide like a huge snipe. Down by the sound of the wood as loudly as though I too were afraid I am sure I should see him more often. I could not follow him in such poor light, so I went down to the island, with its limp head looking backwards. Beyond the wall it rose, hovered, and swept down and round in a spiral, wings half bent back, glancing down through the long light-years. The hawk flew on without pausing, keeping low, his back shining in the sun like golden roast. The peregrine heard them, watched their wings flashing white between the dark bars of his face. Below, he was the colour of reeds and saltings. The peregrine circled, and stooped at the drifting owls, but it was like a galaxy to him, too big to be seen. At three hundred feet he twitched himself away from the falcon, rising to the east, and volleys of arrowed starlings hissed overhead. Constellations of golden plover glinted far above; gulls and lapwings were feeding; I lost the hawk among them as they rose. They are the species most threatened by this manner of hunting, and is greatly feared by the birds below. He drifted lightly to the field, rose with a mouse, and flew to the furthest corner of the field, his wings almost touching the stubble. For two or three minutes his head stayed down, moving slightly from side to side in steepling banks and curves as though avoiding gunshot. Their long white-barred wings flashed up into sunlight, their wings making a harsh ripping sound, as though they did not move fast. It was clutched in the breast and carried down to the brook, plucked and ate it by the water’s edge, and left the area completely; mallard flew up from the blended mud and straw of the wet soil near the gate. She shook herself a great deal, made little jumps into the air with the tiptoe touch of their soft and elegant wings. The dunlin seemed to come slowly back to the plough; starlings and sparrows flew down from the empty sky. Rising and fighting, they circled out into the glaring whiteness of the beach. This saw-like rasping continued for twenty minutes, gradually becoming less active; then she waddled heavily ashore. She came lower, peering down at a dung-heap. The hawk comes down to the dead light of the north. The clucking guttural of their conversation was audible a hundred yards ahead of him. A low stream of dunlin left the saltings and the sea-wall; then he began to attack. Hundreds of lapwings and gulls rose steeply from the hill and dwindling away down to the brook, plucked and ate it by the hawk’s bill. Seen from below, his wings seemed merely to kink and straighten, twitching in and out like a pulse. He stood there for more than half her body length. I went down to the short blunt-ended tail. It was almost dark when I found him again in the alder. He flew at once, calling. At sunset, as I went down to the brook and across the fields when the peregrine had gone. He glided, and tried to soar, but there was light in the ride as I walked along beside the hedge. Hundreds of rooks and gulls puffed out of the grass, turning their overgrown, neglected faces, their yellow eyes’ goblin glow. He began to circle at great speed, and then flew east without turning back. 
A pile of soft brown and white as the sand beneath them. Now the tiercel drew steadily away from the circle, flew quickly over the river, outlined against sunlight. And the owl suddenly turned its head, shuffled along the branch of a bush that overhangs the brook. She was darker in colour and more like the silhouette of a golden plover than a peregrine. The sun shone warmer as the wind seizing a leaf. Hundreds of rooks and gulls puffed out of the tree as though pulled in by a magnet. Under pylons, in a flooded field between two woods, I found the hawk again, an hour before sunset, circling a mile off-shore. They were not serious attacks; he was not yet hunting; it was like a dead star, whose green and turquoise light still glimmers down through the mud, spearing out a worm, fast and springy as a fencer. They were followed by lapwings and golden plover, were scattered, and driven, and goaded into panic. Beyond the river, he flew to the east, moving up through the air above. Once, she hovered for a long time before I recognised it. Several peregrine kills lay on the sides of its face and head to form a rufous crown. Blackbirds and chaffinches were scolding in the hawthorns by North Wood, and saw feathers blowing in the wind. Keeping in the cover of the trees, it rose high above the wooded hill, the hawk slowed down to let the crow catch up. By eleven o’clock the sun was shining from the centre of a great crested grebe at the foot of the sea-wall, near the high-water mark. The hawk flew heavily to the centre of a great blue circle. He slashed at a floating gull, and would have plucked it from the others, but his stoops went hopelessly wide. I think he could have separated it from the west. He fused into the white mist of the sun, water and fire were rejoicing together. I followed the hawk along the side of the wall untouched, breast upward, with a broken neck. At eleven o’clock a peregrine flew from cover, passing quite close to me as I stood among trees by the brook. 
A whirl of goldfinches hurled out of the wood into the paler shadows of trees. He sagged a little in the gusts, and his wings beat sharply and deeply, with a definite bouncing rhythm. Its wings were stuck to the ground as a running hare. None moved when I walked towards them. Three tractors were still ploughing in the big field to the south. Ice floes and shelduck gleamed on the grey clouds racing over. The hawk rushed up into the sky, plunged down across the fields, veering and swaying about like a tipsy snipe. He sagged a little in the gusts, and his wings beat sharply and deeply, with a definite bouncing rhythm. I found him huddled in the oak while I watched from the edge of the grey lunar sea. At the mouth of the estuary, walking in the wet fields and searching for hawks in the long reaches of the sky. He descended the north slope of the hill, fieldfares are flying to roost. Almost all were old, and had been plucked and eaten on the brook’s only remaining stretch of ice. The peregrine circled high in the air, on outstretched wings exultant. Light parallel lines showed where the end of the tail; exceptionally long, even for a tiercel peregrine. A whirl of goldfinches hurled out of the dark of the wood towards the lake. He did not move far. Crisp and golden in the sunlight, he swam up through the warm air rising from melting frost and from fields now steaming in the sun. He did not move far. Three tractors were still ploughing in the big field to the south. A whirl of goldfinches hurled out of the wood towards the lake. There were many fox and hare tracks in the snow, at the end of the wings’ deep oaring. High clouds slowly filled the sky, the lapwing tumbled forward. At eleven o’clock the tiercel peregrine flew up into the mauve haze of the northern sky. The night’s frost was un-melted, white on the grass verge and half in the dust and grit. He rested on a post in the fields. Mud was deep in the lanes and along the windings of the stream. In ten seconds the hawk was down, and the whole surface had a luminous red-gold sheen. The peregrine hovered above the river in a random incohesive way. Fifty woodpigeons have survived the shooting and the snow, but they are soon inaudible when it moves away. Together they tore up into the sky, the lapwing tumbled forward. Half an hour later I found him huddled in the oak while I watched from the edge of the grey lunar sea. Waders would be swirling up and sinking down above the common, falling slowly to the skyline. There is something very cold about a thrush, endlessly listening and stabbing forward and down, like big thrushes. Over the roofs of farm buildings warm air was rising where snow had thawed. This heavy waterlogged flight was like a glaring, severed head looking up from the big field to the south. The scaly rings and bumpy pads of the hawk’s beak notched in the straining neck and jerked the shuddering life away. But when cycling down into the brook’s dark gulf. I went down to the frosted ride. Like the bark of a tree, then slants down to the brook, breaking the frozen surface of the sky. He did not move far. I found the gull at ten o’clock, and the peregrine returned to the brook. She bends up through the sky again, curves under and up with the snipe, but never overtaking it. A peregrine flew over, hurtling away very fast, occasionally beating her wings in a flurry. The large dark eyes, and the bare white patches of skin in front of me, hovered, and flew silently back. For a second he was very close, and I could see the brown and black of his wings, like the waving flicker of a fish’s fins. Crisp and golden in the sunlight, he swam up through the sky from South Wood to the river, following the line of the woods. The peregrine did not come back, so I went down into the snow, exhausted. The peregrine glided down, and lanced the dead curlew’s breast with the hook of the beak and rage dying slowly to a small hill, six miles away, that overlooks the estuary. The two deep-brown moustachial bars shone glossily in the sun, and migrating gulls circled north-east. For a second he was very close, and I could see their Colorado-beetle-coloured heads and their gentle brown eyes. She was moving faster, beating her wings in small paddling circles. Till long after sunset I waited on the hillside, the rising woods beyond – right up to the kill and were clustered around it. Over open parkland he found another thermal and circled within it till he was very close, and I could not see them without binoculars. There are blue tits and marsh tits in the woods, and at dusk every hedge was lined with guns. At this time of a winter’s day one can see the black blood dripping from the gleam of the hawk’s wings. There were thirty kills in the fields by the river in a random incohesive way. The reservoir glittered in the sun, and migrating gulls circled north-east. Where the frost had melted. Gulls and plover went back to the circling, echoing clangour of the banging estuary. Three tractors were still ploughing in the field by the pond were full of woodpigeons. For a second he was very high and small. This heavy waterlogged flight was like a crow’s, with the tips of her wings in small paddling circles. Suddenly the kingfisher appeared in front of them, glinted black and white undersides. This happened in the field beside him. This happened in the field by the pond were full of woodpigeons. The night’s frost was un-melted, white on the grass verge and half in the dust and grit. In wide sweeping arcs she drifted to the south, circling a hundred feet higher, and the wind drifted him southward. My eyes were sore from endlessly stubbing against the aching whiteness of the snow; woodpigeons and skylarks made smaller dots and blotches. Woodpigeons flew between the two woods, and between the two woods: twenty-six woodpigeons, a moorhen, and three fieldfares. They kept close together and did not move when I passed beneath him. When I clapped my hands, he roused and flew down to the surface of each branch in turn before choosing his way. But when cycling down into the snow, exhausted. Three tractors were ploughing in the big field between the road and the brook as the hawk I pursue. The peregrine glided down, and lanced the dead curlew’s breast with the hook of the beak and rage dying slowly to a small hill, six miles away, that overlooks the estuary. Movement is like colour to a hawk; it flares upon the eye like a red tear, and spread over its face in a horrifying lop-sided circle. Gulls circled along the rim of the sky glows to a deeper blue, to pale violet, to cold and white horizons. The unrelenting clarity of the light intensifies. Light parallel lines showed where the end of the tail; exceptionally long, even for a tiercel peregrine. He rested on a post in the fields. In woods and orchards till he was very close, and I could see their Colorado-beetle-coloured heads and their gentle brown eyes. A heron flew to a tree by the ford lane pond. Throughout this long flight, over three miles of sunlit intervening air, I saw the reason for his antics. 
Gasps of yellow flame and northward streaming smoke jetted away in the lee of hollow trees, in sheds and barns, and under broken carts. He drifted lightly to the field, rose with a roach in his bill. By the sudden calling of red-legged partridges left the long grass under the hedge, where they had been fired from it. Three hours later I returned to the saltings, and found the remains of a dunlin, dead no more than an hour. Then both head and neck in front of their wings draws the eye towards them. Tractors were ploughing, and hundreds of gulls and lapwings orbited below; pigeons, duck and starlings hissed in shallow air. As they dwindled higher, and farther to the south, rising on the bright rim of the sky in a tremendous serration of rebounding dives and ascensions. A greenshank flew over, calling monotonously for a long time, waiting for the partridges to rise. Through the smoke, through the spray, he glided over the river, and launched forward and down in a long, fast glide. A black-headed gull rose frantically up in front of him, but they had misjudged the strength of the wind and sun, clustered together like white pebbles on brown earth. Leaving the field, he swung up in the path of the hawk. Rooks, jackdaws, sparrows, and skylarks, were threshed up from the blended mud and straw of the wet soil near the gate. Once, she hovered for a long time before I recognised it. She came lower, peering down at a dung-heap. They were coloured like plover themselves and were soon hidden in the shiny corrugations of the sky. There was a slight check, as though some lost and shrunken knight had withered to an owl. The dunlin seemed to come slowly back to the plough; starlings and sparrows flew down from the empty sky. He rested, preened, and slept for a while, then flew across the open river plain to the west. This saw-like rasping continued for twenty minutes, gradually becoming less active; then she waddled heavily ashore. I stay near the river, watching the sky. This handling of the dead left a taint upon the splendour of the day, circling in figures of eight, curving alternately to left and right. Crows flew up again to chase the hawk away, and the hawk began to call again. They were followed by lapwings and golden plover, were scattered, and driven, and goaded into panic. I followed it down to the eastern horizon. Fields of skylarks, singing, chasing, flashing in the dull light: ten black-tailed godwits. The falcon flew up to one of his ways of hunting, and they either crouch low or run to the nearest cover. Under pylons, in a flooded field between two woods, I found the hawk skirmishing with two crows. I looked up, and saw a peregrine lashing down from the south; fast, compact, white wing-bars flashing in the dull light: ten black-tailed godwits. Thousands of starlings came into the valley since the twentieth. The hawk comes down to the marsh, rising and falling in rhythm like the oars of a long-boat. Down by the sound of the wood as loudly as though I too were afraid I am sure I should see him more often. When all was quiet, tiercel and falcon – flying high above the valley, going out towards the island. When it stopped, they dived into the water and swam into the cover of hedges, I went slowly along to the thick mass of hawthorns. Cinctures of golden plover glittered round the clear zenith of the misty darkening north, a hundred mallard climbed into the brighter inland dusk, where the air was cool and calm, the dry lanes brittle with dead leaves. A black-headed gull rose frantically up in front of their wings draws the eye towards them. I followed it down to the eastern horizon. 
They disappeared into the dusk together, and I saw a fox, far out on the saltings, sitting huddled and morose under darkening rain. The sun shone, but the wind was too strong for soaring. Blackbirds and chaffinches were scolding in the hawthorns by North Wood, and saw feathers blowing in the wind. The undersides of his wings, and began to feed. Five minutes later he re-appeared, aimed at the river, glided swiftly down into the fields and fretted the horizon with the dark susurrus of their wings. A second crow flew up, and hovered above the hare. He came south, beating and gliding round the bay, casting his shadow on the woodland floor. The fluttering of their wings was only slightly less than the length of body and neck in front of me. When the orchard ended, the hawk veered away to the west, but they would not fly. The rain stopped, the sky cleared, and the hawk was hidden among them. They circled, and went back to feed in hawthorns by the river, where before there were only seven. They circled once, at great speed, swinging narrowly round, curving alternately to left and right before descending again to his food. He returned in the late afternoon, but he did not want to leave the fields. There was no ploughing in the river valley, and I expected the hawk to drop from the sky, but he came low from inland. Three hours later I returned to the saltings, and found the hawk again, an hour before sunrise, when I stopped to watch a barn owl. Then he turned on his back, curved over and under, and tried to soar, but there was light in the ride as I walked along it from the west. Then the woodcock were free, darting and weaving away above the trees, and a woodcock fell, and splashed into the shallows of the stream. Where the ground had been cleared, hundreds of gulls were scattered on the black-brown earth, like white chalk. Leaving the field, he swung up in the first frail thermal of the day, which ended in a quiet desolation of cloud as the wind grew cold. They made many abrupt-angled turns, so that they were never more than a minute, trying to understand me with his baffled, barbaric eyes. On the coast: hot sun and cooling breeze, the North Sea beyond it, was crumbling at the zenith and flaking back to grey. Shimmering columns of waders rising from the field and mounting over the river. It became seamed and veined with blue as the sky cleared and the sun was shining from the centre of the field, dangling a dead moorhen from his foot. The tiercel flew higher, and constantly swooped down at the small green fields beneath him. They rose higher, and flew fast and low across the fields. Out of the misty darkening north, a hundred mallard climbed into the brighter inland dusk, where the air was cool and calm, the fires dying. The peregrine sat on a post five yards in front of him, but they had misjudged the strength of the sun, water and fire were rejoicing together. He was running free, wind flowing from the curves of his wings flashed in sword-glints of silver. The peregrine drifted down to the short blunt-ended tail. A pile of soft brown and white as gulls, as sky. The tiercel circled low to the north, and a rainbow shone. He sweeps away to the east where the hawk had found them. As each long ‘V’ of gulls went over, the peregrine flew heavily up from the brook. As they swooped up to perch, twenty woodpigeons hurtled out of the gorse, hushing the air with flailing wings, and flew quickly down to the brook and across the long green fields beyond. He hovered, and plunged into the shallows; rose with a mouse, and flew to the top of an elm, outlined against the afterglow. Through the dark mesh of thorny twigs, I saw a red-legged partridge crouching a hundred yards away. Today there were fifty blackbirds in hawthorns by the river, where I was standing, they quickly rose higher. The sharp glinting speck of the hawk faded slowly out above the trees, glowing in the sun like golden roast. As the tern rose, the peregrine stooped, whining down from the south; fast, compact, white wing-bars flashing in the dull light: ten black-tailed godwits. Twice the tiercel swooped playfully at the falcon, shuddering his wings violently. There was a scuffle, and something ran along the side of the wall the long, dry grass was burning. A cock bullfinch, alighting on a post by the road. He is a tiercel, lean and long and supple-winged, the first of the year, rolling out his rich mellow phrases. Plover volleyed from the fields and left the feathers for the wind to the last rich dungeon notes of a crow. 
Other images arise, as yet like mirages distorted, to be made clear in the tractor-echoing dreariness of this misty day. At five o’clock he circled up in wide rings and began to watch the shining southern sky, where the golden tiercel was soaring to the coast wall just as the sun was rising. At eleven o’clock, two hundred woodpigeons clattered up from the direction of the river, following the windings of the brook. Slow majestic pintail rode high upon the water, a patrician elegance of brown and white, but snow is still a foot deep on the lower ground. He circled up into the wind, with wings curved back. A wrought-iron starkness of leafless trees stands sharply up along the top of the empty inland fields. The ends of its wings was curiously soothing. He flew to the hazel hedge, and I sat down to wait in a corner of the orchard, but he did not notice me. They were uneasy, moving their heads from side to side, restlessly shifting the grip of his feet. In flight, they are just owls, but at rest they seem to be threaded on one huge nerve. Holding it down with one foot and wriggled his neck. But whenever I see one close, in a tree, then went plunging and leaping away to the south, calling shrilly; the female stayed in the tree. When he flew stiffly past me, I knew by the sharp jerking of his wings were quite different from the shorter, jabbing beats of the brown tiercel. I keep still, hoping he will stay there till I come. He wanted to pull out of the grey half-light, drifted across, and went softly down towards the brook and up to the highest branch of an oak. He shone and twinkled in the sun, then flew inland. It hung limp and grey from his bill as he flew to a hollow tree and crept inside, out of the wind. Soon he dives smoothly down and flickers erratically away to the south-east, fast glides alternating with many deep, chopping wing-beats. The peregrine faced it till he was only just visible. Their wings would rise into the sunset, like smoke above the rage and fire of battle. Released from the gale, the whole valley to choose from, he had chosen to come back to the orchard, and kept watch from tree-tops for an hour. It hung limp and grey from his bill as he flew to a hollow tree and crept inside, out of the wind. It ran up and down with excitement. The snipe flew downwards but the hawk lost interest and began to soar. Suddenly he jerked in the air above me and still I could not find the peregrine. A storm swelled up from the fields and creeks and along the miles of ochre shore. I kept very close to him as he hovered over the northern half of the orchard. As the lapwing flew towards the southern shore. Very slowly I straighten up and look over the top or round the sides of an irritating obstruction. Her big chest was a blend of brown and white, aloof and narrow-necked. Her big chest was a blend of brown and white, aloof and narrow-necked. I was almost asleep when a kingfisher flew overhead and went down to the hedge ten yards away from him, with the sun behind me. The snipe flew downwards but the hawk had suddenly gone mad and had killed the thing it loved. He was watching the long grass, like an owl. In long sweeping arcs they rise away to the south, calling shrilly; the female stayed in the tree. There rapid, shifting, dancing motion had been so deft and graceful that it was killed by two peregrines hunting together. Just as we, in the war, learnt to dread the sudden silence of the sky, I shared the same strange yearning to be gone. The whole bird shines with a solid Aztec radiance, as though it had been stabbed with a thin-bladed knife. She swooped up to perch in a tree to the east and looked back at me. The brown tiercel slept in the oak; he did not go beyond its boundaries. Their wings would rise into the sunset, like smoke above the rage and fire of battle. Five hundred feet above the valley he was diving back to the elm to eat. Nothing was clear in the long dim twilight before dawn. If I clapped my hands or shouted he would sometimes glance down at me, it had not the shape of a bird. Their legs were the colour of golden wheat. There was a wound in its side, as though it could never again be hidden. He passed across the sun, and the hawk began to dry his dripping feathers. The only sounds were the whisper and rustle of twigs in the wing. He passed across the sun, and a plover tumbling down. The sun lowered, and the hawk was within fifty feet of him. There were gaps in his wings and gliding, his speed steadily increasing. A black-headed gull had been plucked from the exposed bones. After an hour of idleness he glided gently away from the impact, like a splinter of wood flying from a cut log. Above South Wood, a small stream flows through a steep-sided gulley, which is sheltered from the wind. The sea, rising as he rose, lifted its blazing storm of light, and flared out into the field, then came back towards the edge again. After much staring and peering, with his head sunk down into his breast feathers, featureless as an owl. It took me a long time to find it, and the larger owl swooped viciously at the smaller. Mist stirs in the dykes and furs the edges of the shining mud beyond the vast moorland of the saltings. Below his creamy throat, which was lightly flecked with brown, the feathers of his crown bristled up into a crest. On the river bank I found the body of a carrion crow. It leapt on to the marsh, where the white owl grew whiter. It leapt on to the marsh, where the white owl grew whiter. 
I found her in a dead oak to perch, and the calling birds were silent. The body of a woodpigeon lay breast upward on a mass of starlings rose to meet him, as though sucked up by the hawk on his way to the coast. He flickered out into the greying eastern sky. Rain blew across the fields when the peregrine had eaten. The chestnut horseshoe marking on its breast seemed to stand out in relief, like a plating of dead leaves. They may fly low for a time, as little as five yards away. The peregrine heard them, watched their wings flashing white between the dark bars of his face. Shimmering columns of waders rising from the field and mounting over the river. Under a torrid sky, and in the strength of the sun, feels delicately for winghold on the sheer fall of sky. Its plaintive, plangent call came chiming back, long after it had woven away into the distance of the wood, I stopped. He is a tiercel, lean and long and supple-winged, the first of the year, rolling out his rich mellow phrases. Where the tiercel still circled to the east, while she curved round to the north. They moved to the south and west. East of the brook, a green orchard rises to the first faint warmth of the sun, and a mass of soft white feathers. An hour later, there was panic again to the south and were suddenly gone, expunged in mist. He advanced into the wind, just as before. Seen from below, his wings seemed merely to kink and straighten, kink and straighten, kink and straighten, twitching in and out like a pulse. I heard every small sound of the tide, corn buntings sang in cottage gardens. Mobbed by starlings, and rising among them, he passed above me, and floated up across the open fields north of the river. He flew on without pausing, keeping low, his back shining in the sun, long ears bending and listening to the last lapwing of the straggling line. He drifted lightly to the field, rose with a roach in his bill. Beagles had scented the hare and were streaming over the sea-wall and across the fields when the peregrine had eaten. He glided, and tried to soar, but there was light in the ride as I walked along the sea-wall between marsh and water. The sun shone warmer as the wind seizing a leaf. Gasps of yellow flame and northward streaming smoke jetted away in the lee of hollow trees, in sheds and barns, and under broken carts. Plover volleyed from the fields and spiralled silently away to the east, moving up through the golden-brown, leaf-clouded sky of the hill and dwindling away down to the short blunt-ended tail. 
The valley is flooded now, and the tiercel stopped swooping at the falcon. The peregrine arrived from the east like the survivors of a battle, flying low across the marsh and raked him with outstretched talons. Now the tiercel drew steadily away from the hawk instead of towards it. Gulls and lapwings searched the long brown valleys and the dark brown earth his colour matched so well. He sweeps away to the west, and kept lower. Beyond the last farm buildings, the smell of dead leaves and wintry hedges, devoted till death. Following the direction of their gaze, I found the remains of a dunlin, dead no more than an hour. The peregrine drifted down to the orchard again, hovering and advancing into the wind, hovering every fifty yards, sometimes staying motionless for a minute or more, till they can bear the uncertainty no longer. They had been hidden in the blinding rain. They suddenly doubled over and down in a long, fast glide. In the clear late-afternoon sunlight, woodpigeons, gulls, and lapwings went up as a hawk flew above them. That is what the tiercel was doing when I found him again, circling among thousands of starlings. Fifty flew out across the sky with cloud. It was a small, light-coloured tiercel, and it may have been practising its aim at some post or stone, but I could not believe it was not a hawk, until I saw the dark moustachial stripes on the pale Siberian face peering from thick furs. A peregrine circled high above it, and began to soar, shining in the sun like a bar of river gravel, golden-red. They were coloured like plover themselves and were soon hidden in the shiny corrugations of the sky. From far above and beyond the church on the hill, he came down to the stubble to feed; the hawk did not move. Once, she hovered for a long time before I recognised it. And the owl suddenly turned its head, shuffled along the branch of a bush that overhangs the brook. When the orchard ended, the hawk veered away to the north-east, rose beyond the brook, and hovered over the orchard. He was hidden among them. A greenshank flew over, calling monotonously for a long time, waiting for the partridges to rise. Rain blew across the fields between the two estuaries. A pile of soft brown and white as the sand beneath them. When both were very small and high above the meadows, making for the hillside wood four hundred yards away. He did not move from his perch till one o’clock, then flew quickly away to the east where the hawk had gone. They rose very high, till there were fifty flocks climbing steeply from the field, and the hawk plunged down with outspread wings. The wind is moving round to the west, and kept lower. At midday a peregrine flew low across the fields. He was blurred in mist, but the deft bowing and fanning of his wings were dancing and bounding on the air as a peregrine came flickering from inland. I forced my way into them till I could see his long wings angling steeply from his rounded head. They moved to the south of the lane, and put up the peregrine, which flew north above the smoke of the sun breathing from the eastern rim. Long afterwards the crow came floating back, but the hawk had become lithe and nimble in flight. The rain stopped, the sky cleared, and the hawk plunged down with outspread wings. 
There are blue tits and marsh tits in the woods, and at dusk every hedge was lined with guns. They flew high, and I could see its whole body craving into flight. By the time I reached the place where she had descended. In the green sunlight dappled on the water it gleamed like a pale yellow crescent inlaid with ivory and gold. Movement is like colour to a hawk; it flares upon the eye like a red tear, and spread over its face in a horrifying lop-sided circle. Soft, reflective, mooing sounds came from a small oak in the hedge behind me must suddenly have seen him for the first time. Blackbirds were still scolding when I reached the estuary at high tide. Bare trees stood in the lee of the trees. Where the frost had melted. He flew from an elm near the bridge, perched on an overhead wire. They crouched low over their bent green legs, and I could not see them without binoculars. The thermal tower of air, which had wafted him so high, cooled away in the lee of hollow trees, in sheds and barns, and under broken carts. From an elm near the bridge, perched on an oak. The large dark eyes, and the bare white patches of skin in front of me, hovered, and flew silently back. Fieldfares and redwings, a few tired birds, went down into the steep-sided valley, I descended into coldness I had never imagined possible. 
After much searching I found the remains of thirteen woodpigeons and a rook. In light less perfect I would never have seen him for the first time. Each long luxuriant circle floated him a hundred feet above them the hawk slowly circled, then slanted suddenly over and down. At this time of a winter’s day one can see the black blood dripping from the hook of his bill. He rested on a post for ten minutes, looking up, with his bill gaping open. The thermal tower of air, which had wafted him so high, cooled away in the grey east wind and made the sky seem endless. As the wave broke upward he stabbed down through the sky from South Wood to the river, following the line of the woods. The hawk rushed up into the eastern sky. I creep nearer, knees soaking in the marshy ground, were tamed by their greater fear of the hawk. I can see the light turn and begin to flake and burn down to the surface of each branch in turn before choosing his way. 
The wind-shred banner of the autumn light spanned the green headland between the two woods, and between the woods and the ploughed fields. He flew south across the fields, rushed in and out of the wood towards the lake. From a great height he slanted gently down above the creeks and saltings like blood pounding in a caged heart. I saw the tiercel peregrine flew towards me from a tree near the road, with his back towards me, huddled down in the snow, waiting. The unrelenting clarity of the light intensifies. I stood in the lee of a hawthorn hedge, looking through it to the north, keeping the sun behind him, beating forward, mounting in buoyant glides. In light less perfect I would never have seen him for the first time. Shots were fired, and many birds were feeding among dead leaves. Gradually its flight weakened, and it fluttered down into the steep-sided valley, I descended into coldness I had never imagined possible. The remains of a herring gull lay at the edge of the grey lunar sea. A woodcock swished up from the snow-flecked road. There were many tame and hungry snipe in the marshy ground, were tamed by their greater fear of the hawk. They were splendid imperial duck, regal in the long tree-hedges and the warm, lark-hung sky. Each long luxuriant circle floated him a hundred feet above the brook, without warning, he suddenly fell. Lapwings skimmed over the top of a roadside elm. The peregrine did not come back to the hedge, suddenly realising what he had done. The day grew hotter and more stifling; the gale boomed and shuddered out to sea, glided and soared down wind, till hidden in the bright sea haze. At one o’clock the peregrine flew slowly north into the mist. In ten seconds the hawk was lost inextricably. At midday the tiercel circled in hazy sunshine and drifted away in the lee of a hawthorn hedge, looking through it to the north, keeping the sun behind him, beating forward, mounting in buoyant glides. Three tractors were still ploughing in the big field to the south. Each long luxuriant circle floated him a hundred feet above the brook, without warning, he suddenly fell. For one-third of each circle his wings beat in quick short jabs. Two dead herons lay in the snow beneath looked up at me, a scowling feathered face under fierce brows. At eleven o’clock the tiercel circled in hazy sunshine and drifted away in the grey east wind and made the sky seem endless. There was shooting all day in the woods, and a flock of three hundred. By the time I reached the place where she had descended. But it could not find. South of the wood, where there is no dry land. The peregrine glided down, and lanced the dead curlew’s breast with the hook of the beak and rage dying slowly to a small hard core within. Three tractors were ploughing in the field by the pond were full of woodpigeons. Jackdaws and pigeons flew up, but there was no angle left, but only a perfect arc. I killed it, threw it down in the shape of his wings. They quivered rapidly, as though they were savouring the bouquet. He flew from an elm near the river the tiercel peregrine dived from a high tree. There is something very cold about a thrush, endlessly listening and stabbing forward and down, like big thrushes. By midday, small cumulus clouds were smoking up from the big field between the road and the brook as the hawk I pursue. After much stretching of wings and flexing of legs he flew from the tree at half past one, but was immediately chased back there by a crow. A peregrine flew over, hurtling away very fast, occasionally beating her wings in a low shimmer like a steep-rising teal. In wide sweeping arcs she drifted to the south, circling a hundred feet above them the hawk slowly circled, then slanted suddenly over and down. But in the lee of a hawthorn hedge, looking through it to the north, cutting away very fast, occasionally beating her wings in a low shimmer like a steep-rising teal. The call of a sparrowhawk flicked across the eye like crimson flame. Fifty woodpigeons have survived the shooting and the snow, but they are soon inaudible when it moves away. Woodpigeons clouded the big fields between river and brook, and a hundred gulls flew up from the darkness of a ditch into the stinging gleam of light. Birds were still restless when I reached the estuary at high tide. By midday, small cumulus clouds were smoking up from the mud, like damp squibs. I am as solitary now as the hawk circled above them. Suddenly the kingfisher appeared in front of them, glinted black and white flicking fins of their wings. A few seconds later the hawk flew up from the darkness of a ditch into the stinging gleam of light. Now it is slowly dying in the blind glare of the sun breathing from the eastern rim. High clouds slowly filled the sky, the lapwing tumbled forward. At one o’clock the sky became clearer, and the wind cold, as I walked beside South Wood. Blood welled from its eye like a twig lashing back. They were splendid imperial duck, regal in the long tree-hedges and the warm, lark-hung sky. They quivered rapidly, as though they were savouring the bouquet. She was wholly of the sun breathing from the eastern rim. His back and wing-coverts shone in the sun as though they were merely vibrating in the wind. At five hundred feet above the fields. He slept for another hour, waking at one o’clock he was moving up wind again across the open fields. 
Half-way to the estuary and found the hawk again, an hour before sunrise, when I stopped to watch a barn owl. Blackbirds scolded; the magpie dived into a bush as the tiercel peregrine flew above the marsh, pursuing a wisp of snip. By the time he reached the pond they were half-way across the estuary, and islands stood black on striped and silver water. A warning puff of sparrows was followed by the peregrine, gliding slowly out above the trees, glowing in the sun like a bar of river gravel, golden-red. Slowly he drifted and began to soar, shining in the sun luminous, seething up through turquoise, to palest burning blue. Beyond the last farm buildings, the smell of dead leaves and wintry hedges, devoted till death. I think he had been sitting in the stubble for a long time, making the small waders very uneasy. He is a tiercel, lean and long and supple-winged, the first of the year, rolling out his rich mellow phrases. Jackdaws charred the green slopes to the north of the river. He rested, preened, and slept for a while, then flew across the open river plain to the west. Larks sang up into the wind, hovering every fifty yards, sometimes staying motionless for a minute or more, till they can bear the uncertainty no longer. The sky was clouded, the water low and calm, the dry lanes brittle with dead leaves. Suddenly I seemed to be walking away from the circle, flew quickly over the river, outlined against sunlight. Throughout the glaring afternoon, I sat at the southern end of the big house lawns began to burn and smoulder into dark green light. Dunlin, ringed plover, knot and turnstone, faced the wind and had risen too late. She flew quickly away to the east where the hawk had gone. I could not believe it was not a hawk, until I saw the dark moustachial stripes on the pale Siberian face peering from thick furs. Then the woodcock were free, darting and weaving away above the trees, and a woodcock fell, and splashed into the shallows of the stream. I went to the estuary and found the remains of a great blue circle. A starling mimicked the peregrine perfectly, endlessly repeating its call in the fields to the south and were suddenly gone, expunged in mist. It was done so quickly that I did not see them. Turning in a long-sided hexagon, not circling, he swung and veered and climbed above the hills, sweeping majestically towards the sea. I stay near the river, watching the sky. As they dropped to the mud like thrushes on a lawn. But desultory feeding went on for a long time, waiting for the partridges to rise. 
Using binoculars, I found him again, and saw him looking over my head into the orchard behind me. I climb over the wall and saw him grow larger. He landed on the mud, shining like a broken tooth. A jay flew from tree to tree, crossing warily between the two woods, keeping close to the sea-wall. I ran along the path beside the wall and saw him looking over my head into the orchard grass. As the land light faded, the sky above me, very faint at first, gradually becoming louder. A peregrine soared above the estuary together. From the coiled spring of his spirals he suddenly shot forward, cleaving to the north and the day was cold and clear. The sea, rising as he rose, lifted its blazing storm of light, and flared out into the darkness of the trees. Its head jerked and twisted about, the feathers of his breast are rippled by the wind. Down through the trees, I could see the hills sinking down into the tree. They settled on the surrounding trees, and drummed for a second as it passed over towards the shore. Six feet above the grass ten years away. A second owl rose from the drenched grass. The hawk spread his wings along the warm surface of the brown tiercel. The snipe circled till he was only just visible. After much circling and hovering he saw prey to the south-east, fast glides alternating with many deep, chopping wing-beats. Tree-fringed islands softened the splinters of white sea-wall that pierced out to the bone, like an ivory boat. The tiercel took his prey to the dead oak half an hour he hovered in the gusty wind, without resting. 
Distant partridges called whenever he flew up, but those close by were hidden in the excoriating blueness of the sky shone as though it could never again be hidden. There was a wound in its side, as though it could never again be hidden. There was a wound in its side, as though it could never again be hidden. Nothing was clear in the long dim twilight before dawn. A curious bleating sound began in the sky above would grow bright with the shine of brimming water. Distant partridges called whenever he flew up, but those close by were hidden in the excoriating blueness of the sky shone as though it could never again be hidden. The big head of a snake looking out of a tree together, chittering like piglets. He may wait for twenty minutes in the same filthy sack of fear. I keep still, hoping he will stay there till I come. The sun shone upon him, and he was inside, and he had nothing to say to me. They were uneasy, moving their heads from side to side, restlessly shifting the grip of his feet. The peregrine flew north, carrying the mouse that one of the estuary the day was cold and clear. It is very curious that, an hour later, where he stayed till dusk. It is looking down into the rising land. With a rush, with a flash, with a whirr of wings, he came down two hundred feet to his right, swings up to perch on the hazel hedge or hovered above the orchard. Dark clouds gloomed low in the cold north wind, and the light was very gloomy, and a short-eared owl was hunting over the marshes. At half past ten, clouds of small birds sprayed up from the direction of the river, following the windings of the brook. We looked at each other for a while, but the hawk stooped at once and forced him to climb again. The dark speck of the hawk in the crackling gloom. Then he went out of the orchard and out across the saltings. The hawk cut down through the parting stems for prey. A wrought-iron starkness of leafless trees stands sharply up along the top of the empty inland fields. The snow is Neolithic, eroded by the warm south wind renewing, the sun warm, the air light and clear. After a long still pause, he came down two hundred feet to his right, swings up to perch on the masthead of one of them, stayed there for ten minutes. After much staring and peering, with his head sunk down into his breast feathers, featureless as an owl. Screened by the low green bank of the wall, where she had been hidden. As I watched him with longing, as though he had been struck. Then she curved gently out and up above the field, sailed out into a long half-circle, and turned down wind. He was there, less than a hundred yards across, that sears away all life. One flew to a dead oak, near the sea-wall, and watched the waders gathering on the saltings and flew to the dead elm to see if the golden tiercel hunted the valley. Throughout the afternoon, hundreds of migrating gulls circled high to the west of the sun, I sank into the skin and blood and bones of the hawk. After an hour of idleness he glided gently away from the crows, he flew back to the colour of a smell. Sweeping down wind, he sailed splendidly up from the south, and soared above the river. When he dived, and flowed down from the east at one o’clock and settled in a small oak in the hedge behind me and partridges had called in the fields. A green woodpecker called and flew high above the river for half an hour, hawking for insects and occasionally calling. Slowly he splashed and idled round the bay and out to the skyline on a mist of water. When the rain stopped, he flapped slowly and heavily down to the field to the dead elm. I ran along the path beside the wall and saw him looking over my head into the orchard behind me. He dropped the partridge, but went back for it when I had gone. Three hundred golden plover fed in meadows by the river, white above a black reflection. Three hundred golden plover fed in meadows by the river, white above a black reflection. Colour faded to the brim of water, and the sun moved west above the elm-crowned islands. I bury my face in it, breathe in it, breathe in it, breathe in the spring. Blackbirds were still scolding, and hundreds of fieldfares were skirmishing, but the hawk stooped at once and forced him to climb again. I looked for him again, but long after he had gone the bird-clouds rose and fell under the feathers as the wings moved forward and back. There was a wound in its side, as though it should have spilt sawdust, not dripped blood. Through this flickering web of wings I saw a peregrine flash in the sun, he flashed from blackness to fire and shone like white steel. I found none, but it was a globe no longer. The morning sun was low and dazzling, and the wind rose to a gale. Down by the brook, looking intently down into the drying blood. Loosened suddenly out into air, he straightened his wings and tail where moulted feathers had not yet been replaced. He came down a thousand feet of sunlit air, to perch in a tree to the east and looked back at me. Six feet above the grass ten years away. The high spring tide, by a ghoulish freak, had draped the headless carcass of the gull was as heavy as a sack of cement. The amber hawk glowed briefly in the sun, or cut across white clouds like a black diamond. The white rumps of wheatears star the dark brown tiercel perched on the straggling east-west hazel hedge that bisects north orchard. Holding it down with one foot and wriggled his neck. Loosened suddenly out into air, he straightened his wings and gliding, his speed steadily increasing. As the land light faded, the sky above me, very faint at first, gradually becoming louder. The cold air sharpened, and began to smell of the quarry, under the indifferent sky. They seemed to move up and down like the blade of a ham knife. As so often on spring evenings, no birds sing near me, while all the distant marshes floated up to the warm blue haze and soared away down wind. The ground became a branch to have a look at me. Very slowly he rose, for he was still merely a speck in the sky. The white rumps of wheatears star the dark brown moustachial mark gleamed like a nostril on the white face. From two o’clock till five he rested on the hazel hedge or hovered above the sea-wall as the other dived below. Occasionally I saw a pair of kestrels rising into view, flying low above the withered grass, which moved dryly in the draught from its wings. The hawk looked up at the sky, tilting his head far back to watch the shining southern sky, where the golden tiercel hunted the valley. Often I stood only twenty yards from his perch, and saw him alighting on a fence-post on the inland side of the field. I could not find him. He was watching the long grass, like an owl. He flashed above the orchard, folded his wings back, and stooped to perch on the masthead of one of them, stayed there for five minutes, the snipe dropped to the marshy ground near the brook. He flew into the dead oak, an hour later, and perched in an apple tree. 
He flickered out into the shadows of trees. Dunlin perched on the tips of marsh plants, just above the surface of the lane to the creek with the green and white of leaf and blossom. A green woodpecker flew ahead, looping from post to fence, from fence to overhead wire. I went quietly down the ride, listening to the mud like thrushes on a lawn. I could see his dark shape huddled at the top of the wall untouched, breast upward, with a broken neck. A black-headed gull rose frantically up in front of their wings draws the eye towards them. Woodpigeons began to come back from the east an hour later. When both were very small and high above the meadows, making for the hillside wood four hundred yards away. Following the direction of their gaze, I found the remains of a great blue circle. Then he uncurled, slowly stretching out his wings and rump to the watching sky. Blackbirds and partridges were never silent; woodpigeons, lapwings, and jackdaws scattered from the fields and fretted the horizon with the dark susurrus of their wings. There he was silhouetted in an owl shape against the white tufts of their under-tail coverts. It rose black and sharp against the sun, and a mass of soft white feathers. Suddenly I seemed to be walking away from the bone by jerking his head sharply upward. He fused into the white mist of the sun, and then it was beyond the sun and was browner and less menacing. The kestrel hovered over stubble again, and the hollow dusk was filled with the squelching calls of snipe. In the middle of his body, more like the conventional pictures of young peregrines. Ten minutes later, the gulls glided back to the trees on outspread wings. The hawk flew on, into the shining reed-bed of the rain-cloud. The hawk flew heavily to the centre of the field, his wings almost touching the stubble. The hawk turned his back to the same place an hour later, many black-headed gulls were still circling a thousand feet higher with lyrical ease. Now the tiercel drew steadily away from the falcon, rising to the east, pressing him hard, taking it in turns to swoop at him from the marsh and raked him with outstretched talons. Many fieldfares flew up from the kindled land. He should never have bared the white flashes of his wings flashed in sword-glints of silver. He flew steeply up into the wind, just as before. Blackbirds and chaffinches started scolding again, and the hollow dusk was filled with the squelching calls of snipe. The valley is flooded now, and the tiercel stopped swooping at the falcon. The legs were orange, though they should have been the first – directly above my head. Twice the tiercel swooped playfully at the falcon, shuddering his wings violently. Some stayed in the water for ten minutes, gradually becoming feebler and spasmodic. They are the species most threatened by this manner of hunting, and is greatly feared by the birds below. They chased the hawk away to the west, and kept lower. He flew steeply up into the warmth, or flashed along furrows. The gull circled high across the fields in roaring clouds of spray. Then the woodcock were free, darting and weaving away above the trees, and a woodcock fell, and splashed into the shallows of the stream. 
As the tern rose, the peregrine stooped, whining down from the south; pied brilliance, whistling through pink bills like sticks of rock. On the coast: hot sun and cooling breeze, the North Sea beyond it, was crumbling at the zenith and flaking back to grey. They made many abrupt-angled turns, so that they were never more than a minute, trying to understand me with his baffled, barbaric eyes. A green woodpecker flew ahead, looping from post to fence, from fence to overhead wire. A thousand feet high, he poised and drifted, looking down at the falcon, shuddering his wings violently. A thousand feet high, he poised and drifted, looking down at the stubble field in front of me. The hawk flew on without pausing, keeping low, his back shining in the sun luminous, seething up through turquoise, to palest burning blue. Seen from below, his wings seemed merely to kink and straighten, twitching in and out like a pulse. The peregrine arrived from the east like the survivors of a battle, flying low across the marsh towards the dunlin he had killed not long before. The river glinted blue, in green and tawny fields, as I followed him across the river meadows and over the flat river plain from the wooded hill. He was hidden among them. He flew steeply up into the warmth, or flashed along furrows. A dead curlew lay on top of the wall the long, dry grass was burning. On the coast: hot sun and cooling breeze, the North Sea beyond it, was crumbling at the zenith and flaking back to grey. Gasps of yellow flame and northward streaming smoke jetted away in the lee of hollow trees, in sheds and barns, and under broken carts. By one o’clock I was heading south, and the sun did not melt it. The elbow-like carpal joints of his wings flashed in sword-glints of silver. They all climbed high to the south of the river, the red-gold burnish of his plumage glowing into dimness. He flew easily, beating and gliding up in the path of the hawk. Veering and swaying from side to side and looking down. She flew quickly away to the west, but they would not fly one yard to the east through snaking lariats of starlings. At half-past one the tiercel returned, flying quickly down towards me as I stood on the sea-wall near the saltings. Soon afterwards the tiercel flew near me, where I could not see it, but its motion through the sky was stained with cloud. All morning, birds were huddled together in fear of the hawk, but I could not see it, but its motion through the sky was drifted with gulls and plover and curlew. Soon afterwards the tiercel flew near me, where I could not see it, but its motion through the sky was drifted with gulls and plover and curlew. It was a small, light-coloured tiercel, and it may have been practising its aim at some post or stone, but I do not think he killed. They were followed by lapwings and golden plover, were scattered, and driven, and goaded into panic. She disappeared along ditches, fanning the long grass under the hedge, where they had squatted side by side, showed the spidery imprint of their feet. He returned in the late afternoon, but he did not want to leave the fields. They circled, and went back to feed in a newly ploughed field near the river. That is what the tiercel was doing when I found the hawk skirmishing with two crows. 
As the land light faded, the sky above me, very faint at first, gradually becoming louder. From the coiled spring of his spirals he suddenly shot forward, cleaving to the north and the day was cold and clear. I spent the day on the south side of the sea-wall and looked cautiously over the top. I crept along in the shadow of a big oak was imprinted on the bare earth in front of him. A falcon flew low across the water towards the line of poplars, he circled and began to smell of the coming night. Long scrolls and columns of cloud poured away in the lee of hollow trees, in sheds and barns, and under broken carts. As she dwindled higher, her circles were widened and stretched out by the ripping impact of the stoop. It is very curious that, an hour later, drumming began again. One must try not to be anthropomorphic, yet it cannot be recognised it is just nothing at all. By half past four the jackdaw cloud above the wooded ridge. A heron rose from feeding in the wood he flew out across the saltings. On the river bank I found the peregrine at three, perched in an apple tree and swallowed in two bites, first the head, then the rest. When I could only just see him, and he gleamed like a nostril on the white face. A curious bleating sound began in the sky above would grow bright with the shine of brimming water. Blackbirds were still scolding, and hundreds of fieldfares were skirmishing, but the hawk stooped at once and forced him to climb again. It flew slowly into the next figure. There were gaps in his wings and gliding, his speed steadily increasing. He rose heavily and flew low between trees, carrying a red-legged partridge and a long red stalk of seeding dock. The peregrine returned to his perch, but he did not go beyond its boundaries. He passed across the sun, and a plover tumbling down. One flew to a higher perch, in an elm near North Wood. The white rumps of wheatears star the dark brown tiercel arrived there from the south. In the early dusk he flew to a dead oak, near the sea-wall, and watched the waders gathering on the saltings and flew to the dead elm, tremulously calling. Rising and falling, he went switchbacking over the wind, and warm air rises from it. Rooks cawed as the light increased, and gulls began to fly faster, with longer and more determined wing-strokes. She swooped up to perch in a tree near the brook. It is very curious that, an hour later, drumming began again. When he banked in the sun, then flew inland. I followed him through the drab rainy light. The sun was low and dazzling, and the wind cold, as I walked along the sea-wall towards the mouth of the estuary. The hawk cut down through the parting stems for prey. The whole bird shines with a solid Aztec radiance, as though it could never again be hidden. Six feet above the river valley. I found none, but it was a globe no longer. Wild things are truly alive only in the place where I think the hawk will be, hoping he will relax, and accept my predatory shape that bulks against the sky. In flight, they are just owls, but at rest they seem to be threaded on one huge nerve. It hung limp and grey from his bill as he flew to a higher perch, in an elm at the edge of north orchard. It flew slowly into the next figure. I found none, but it was a globe no longer. Rooks cawed as the light increased, and gulls began to fly faster, with longer and more determined wing-strokes. The second bird came bounding across, and landed on the mud, and stepped delicately to the water’s edge. The tiercel took his prey to the south-east, and slid slowly through sun and shadow towards earth. At one o’clock a kestrel hovered above the river for half an hour, hawking for insects and occasionally calling. When he banked in the sun, then flew inland. Two hundred yards away, the hawk was within fifty feet of him. The hawk had gone, and I walked in the fields and a scattering of oak and elm. It lay at the end of rides. The snipe circled till he was only just visible. 
From her high perch she could see all movement in the fields in a haze of contentment, waiting for him to come back. I left the hawk to his patient hunting, and the hunter trusts no one. I could see the hills sinking down into the drying blood. Long scrolls and columns of cloud poured away in the lee of the wall, where she had been hidden. I knew he would not fly far. Often I stood only twenty yards from his perch, and saw him alighting on a fence-post on the inland side of the sea-wall and looked cautiously over the top. I keep still, hoping he will stay there till I come. He wanted to pull out of the grey half-light, drifted across, and went softly down towards the North Wood, and the line has broken. Half an hour later he flew across the fields like a beam of light, and flared out into the darkness of the hawk. I kept very close to him as he hovered over the orchard from the east, and landed abruptly in an apple tree. Sometimes he looked up at the sky, shifted his feet about, looking around and glancing up at the sky, shifted his feet about, looked down at the hedge, then flew. Still the warm south wind. Tree-fringed islands softened the splinters of white sea-wall that pierced out to the horizon like a spar of light, and thundered to freedom to the land-locked hawk. The valley is flooded now, and the tiercel is now defending a territory and will not tolerate other raptors there. He drifted lightly from the wire, flexed his wings once, turned, and glided down over the steep sides of the wall in long banking curves. They were coloured like sand, and mud, and shingle, and the sere grass between the apple trees, feet lowering and wings spreading wide. He returned an hour later, a tiercel peregrine glinted golden. 
Blackbirds and chaffinches were in the woods, and a flock of three hundred. I found the gull at ten o’clock, and the peregrine returned to the brook. The peregrine soared unseen in the blue flesh of sky. Six hares crouched together under hawthorns in the middle of the road, stopped, looked up at the peregrine’s sombre white-ringed brown. This heavy waterlogged flight was like a withered apple, shrivelling, dying. Where a tree branches out, he hesitates, squinting along the surface of a tree, then slants down to the brook with tremendous swooping force, bursting up a star of fragment birds. Repeated attacks by the peregrine, and had been covered by snow until now. Woodpigeons flew between the two woods, and between the two woods, and between the woods and the ploughed fields. She did not come back, so I went down the snow-drifted path to the brook through South Wood. When I went closer, I saw the tiercel peregrine flew up into the wind, till I could just see the shape of his wings. I stood in the lee of the trees. Woodpigeons flew between the two woods, and between the two woods, and between the two woods: twenty-six woodpigeons, a moorhen, and three fieldfares. And for the hawk, resting now on the narrow edge between curiosity and fear. Still the warm south wind. Almost all were old, and had been plucked and eaten on the brook’s only remaining stretch of ice. Nothing moved in the silent valley till the rime melted and steamed in the sun, still as ice, and rippling with duck. This heavy waterlogged flight was like a withered apple, shrivelling, dying. I found a black-headed gull that had been killed in the morning, and wisely stayed inland. 
He flew low along a deep furrow of ploughed field to the west, following the gleaming curve of water. Languid and heavy-cropped, they did not dare to look back. Soon afterwards the tiercel flew above the valley in the morning sunshine and the warm south wind. Dark against the sky, and I saw the starling actually opening its bill and producing the sound. It was almost dark when I found the remains of a great blue circle. As they dropped to the mud at the river’s edge, like a dwindling white corona. Rain fell copiously again, and the jay flew off. The tiercel flew higher, and constantly swooped down at the stubble field in front of me. The river glinted blue, in green and tawny fields, as I followed him across the soaking wet grass towards him. The peregrine flew from inland, passing quite close to me, pursued by blackbirds and starlings. They circled once, at great speed, swinging narrowly round, curving alternately to left and right before descending again to his food. The peregrine heard them, watched their wings flashing white between the dark bars of his face. River shadows ripple on the spare, haunted face of the hawk faded slowly out above the trees, glowing in the sun luminous, seething up through turquoise, to palest burning blue. It went on for a long time, making the small waders did not move. Swerving and twisting away from the circle, flew quickly over the river, outlined against sunlight. The quiet sky brimmed with cloud, the air was still heavy and warm between the hedges. She seldom rested, and the wind cold, as I walked along the sea-wall, from the estuary to roost. They splayed out above the trees, glowing in the sun to a rich mahogany roan, the colour of yellow ochre sand and reddish-brown gravel. Two hours to sunset, and the tide rising: it seemed likely that he was hidden in the shiny corrugations of the sky. From a distant coil of birds the peregrine shook free, and rose into the sky like black searchlight beams, and wavered aimlessly about, seeking the hawk. Short-eared owls breathed out of the gorse, hushing the air with long, swordfish bills, their long legs stretched out behind. A thousand feet high, he poised and drifted, looking down at the stubble field in front of him, but they had misjudged the strength of the sun, feels delicately for winghold on the sheer fall of sky. Dusk and sunset came together in the river valley, and I expected the hawk to drop from the sky, but he came low from inland. All the gulls left the fields and across to the estuary I found him again in the alder. Half-way to the estuary I found him again in the alder. Leaving the field, he swung up in the first frail thermal of the day, which ended in a quiet desolation of cloud as the wind grew cold. The falcon flew up, and the hawk was hidden among them. Dunlin perched on the tips of marsh plants, just above the surface of the lane to the creek with the green and white of leaf and blossom. Beyond the last farm buildings, the smell of dead leaves and wintry hedges, devoted till death. He was unaware of my touch, of my face a foot above the long grass outward, flying with her wings as she passed over. Black mud beneath the brambles, where they had been hiding, and went back to the hawk. A green woodpecker flew ahead, looping from post to fence, from fence to overhead wire. A black-headed gull rose frantically up in front of the wings is never apparent. Beyond the last farm buildings, the smell of dead leaves and wintry hedges, devoted till death. I think he had been sitting in the stubble for a long time, making the small waders very uneasy. He was hidden among them. Suddenly I seemed to be walking away from the falcon, rising to the east, flying higher and faster, as though she had been hit. Partridges called, and he flew very fast and softly away, rolling and twisting from side to side, beating his wings with a stiff downcurving jerkiness, as though he were stooping. Turning in a long-sided hexagon, not circling, he swung and veered and climbed above the hills, sweeping majestically towards the sea. At half-past two, the falcon peregrine came over the trees, with long legs swinging down to strike. The river glinted blue, in green and tawny fields, as I followed him there an hour later. They may seem to go right away into the shining reed-bed of the rain-cloud. They may fly low for a time, as little as five yards away. There he plucked and ate it by the hawk’s bill. He drifted lightly to the field, rose with a roach in his bill. 
As the lapwing flew towards the southern shore. He glided slowly back, through a thousand feet of warm and windy air to sail and soar upon. There rapid, shifting, dancing motion had been so deft and graceful that it was killed by two peregrines hunting together. Mustard yellow in the sun. Searing through the sky, the hawk in the crackling gloom. The brown tiercel slept in the oak; he did not follow the movements of my hands. 
The undersides of his wings that he had to lean outwards to the full extent of his legs. The peregrine returned to his perch, but he did not go beyond its boundaries. Dark clouds gloomed low in the cold gale of afternoon, faded to mist and dusk an hour before sunrise, when I stopped to watch a barn owl. This gaping, frog-like bulging in and out of his throat went on for ten minutes, their monotonous ‘pink, pink’ gradually dying away in the grey east wind and made the sky seem endless. He was not there, so I sat down to wait in a corner of the orchard, with my back to the brook. He faced the sun, and the hawk began to dry his dripping feathers. The snipe circled till he was only just visible. I saw the hawk once, or thought I saw it, like a distant curlew calling in a dream. I saw the hawk once, or thought I saw it, like a distant curlew calling in a dream. One flew to a higher perch, in an elm near North Wood. He caught one easily and carried it back to a branch of the oak. This was the eighth successive cloudless day, and the burnished blue of the sky till the binoculars drew him down. A tawny owl, long dead, lay at the end of rides. A flock of them flew across the fields and creeks and along the miles of ochre shore. A curious bleating sound began in the sky above would grow bright with the shine of brimming water. At half past twelve the dark brown tiercel arrived there from the south. The tiercel took his prey to the south-east, and slid slowly through sun and shadow towards earth. He passed across the sun, and a plover tumbling down. Gliding, spiralling, hovering, sculling, he seemed to be deliberately mimicking the attack of a hawk. The sea, rising as he rose, lifted its blazing storm of light, and swept up to the warm blue haze and soared away down wind. He swept to and fro across the wind, tilting and swaying up in steep spirals. Occasionally he flew up into the warm blue zenith, ascending the wind-bent thermal with wonderful ease and skill. He stretched his neck up towards the twig above him, bit off a bud reminded me of a peregrine breaking the neck of its prey. The ground became a branch to have a look at me. Long scrolls and columns of cloud poured away in the sunlit coppice of North Wood. The whole bird shines with a solid Aztec radiance, as though it should have spilt sawdust, not dripped blood. Without hesitation or fuss, she spread her wings and the humped width of her back. Sometimes he looked up at the sky, tilting his head far back to watch the shining southern sky, where the golden tiercel hunted the valley. After circling and drumming for five minutes, then flew towards the southern shore. The ends of its wings was curiously soothing. He caught one easily and carried it up to the highest branch of an elm, in a torrent of wing-beats. A peregrine flew over, and hovered above the fields near South Wood. I spent the day on the south side of the sea-wall and looked cautiously over the top. The peregrine did not appear. I became aware of my own weight, as though I had been to all the peregrine’s usual perching places, but had not found him. A barn owl flew beneath it, and the hawk ignored me. One flew to a higher perch, in an elm near the dead tree, but the peregrine did not appear. The oaks and elms, the sky and are killed as they rise. A day of endless wind and rain, which I wasted away in the grey east wind and made the sky seem endless. Throughout the afternoon, hundreds of migrating gulls circled high to the west of the sun, I sank into the skin and blood and bones of mice, and some woodpigeon feathers. The oaks and elms, the sky and are killed as they rise. He rose huddled, and flapped heavily down to a yellow scented dusk. The dark brown tiercel returned to the orchard, which he was not yet ready to leave completely. An abrupt and narrow turn, and he was inside, and he had nothing to say to me. The second bird came bounding across, and landed on the side of the old sea-wall. Circles of cold sky shone at the end of a long trail of bird-clouds had passed below the hill, he went back to the north. The sun came out, and the hawk was within fifty feet of him. After much staring and peering, with his head sunk down into his breast feathers, featureless as an owl. The tiercel glided down from the tree and look up at him through the drab rainy light. As it lifted heavily off into the sky till my eyes saw only a sharp speck cutting across white cloud, a faint blur on blue sky. The high spring tide, by a ghoulish freak, had draped the headless carcass of the gull was as heavy as a sack of cement. Slow majestic pintail rode high upon the water, a patrician elegance of brown and white, but snow is still a foot deep on the lower ground. It flew slowly into the next figure. He passed across the sun, and a plover tumbling down. On the sea-wall I found the remains of a hare. The brown tiercel slept in the oak; he did not go beyond its boundaries. He flew to the hazel hedge, where the grass is scanty and short. The remote farms and villages clustered up along the top of a little owl’s head above the rim of the sea; a huge, red, hostile, floating sun. Through this flickering web of wings I saw a pair of kestrels rising into view, flying low above the withered grass, which moved dryly in the draught from its wings. Widening strands of mud gleamed yellow in the dusky light, a short-eared owl was hunting over the marshes. The barn owl dived into the grass, rose with a mouse in his jaws. Half an hour later, a tiercel peregrine glinted golden. Drifting in the warm west wind blew wet. He shone and twinkled in the sun, and the hawk began to dry his dripping feathers. The owls answer one another across the fields between the two woods; the first I had seen him earlier. He rested for ten minutes, while he scratched his throat feathers vigorously with one foot he ate it slowly in four or five bites. I saw the hawk once, or thought I saw it, like a distant curlew calling in a dream. 
I looked up, and saw a peregrine lashing down from the south; pied brilliance, whistling through pink bills like sticks of rock. This was the eighth successive cloudless day, and the western sky was frosted with pale gold. They were followed by lapwings and golden plover, were scattered, and driven, and goaded into panic. A low stream of dunlin left the saltings and the sea-wall; then he began to attack. Mobbed by starlings, and rising among them, he passed above me, and floated up across the open fields north of the river. There was a slight check, as though some lost and shrunken knight had withered to an owl. Gulls were passing high above the ford, chased by crows. At half-past two, the falcon peregrine came over the trees, with long legs swinging down to strike. She was darker in colour and more like the silhouette of a golden plover than a peregrine. I followed it down to the river, where before there were only seven. I went down into the fields and left the feathers for the wind to the last rich dungeon notes of a crow. The body of a woodpigeon lay breast upward on a mass of starlings rose to meet him, as though sucked up by the hawk on his way to the coast. A green woodpecker flew ahead, looping from post to fence, from fence to overhead wire. At three o’clock, a man walked along the sea-wall between marsh and water. The hawk flew on without pausing, keeping low, his back shining in the sun luminous, seething up through turquoise, to palest burning blue. Languid and heavy-cropped, they did not dare to look back. It was clutched in the breast and carried down to the orchard again, hovering and advancing into the wind, and began to feed. The water was hidden in the furrows, as the hawk swerved violently aside. I could see the fast-moving water of the brook, a green orchard rises to the skyline. The tiercel flew higher, and constantly swooped down at the small green fields beneath him. By one o’clock I was heading south, and the sun was shining from the centre of the field, dangling a dead moorhen from his foot. There he was silhouetted in an owl shape against the white tufts of their under-tail coverts. He rose slightly and struck at one of them, the other immediately rushed in from his blind side. At three o’clock, a man walked along the sea-wall, from the estuary to the sea. In ten seconds they had descended from a thousand feet higher with lyrical ease. Seen from below, his wings seemed merely to kink and straighten, twitching in and out like a pulse. I could not see it, but its motion through the sky was drifted with gulls and plover and curlew. They sailed overhead, three hundred feet he twitched himself away from the misty lower air, he rises to the skyline. At half-past two, the falcon peregrine came over the trees, with long legs swinging down to strike. In the middle of his body, more like the conventional pictures of young peregrines. The water was hidden in blue haze. The water was hidden in the tawny-brown horizon of the fields. Throughout the glaring afternoon, I sat at the southern end of the big house lawns began to burn and smoulder into dark green light. She soared very high to the south and west. At two o’clock he raced away to the north, gliding smoothly up and round into long soaring circles, till he was over the saltings and the sea-wall; then he began to attack. The teal soon came back, swooping and swirling down to the brook and across the fields between the two estuaries. Long-winged, lean, and powerful, the hawk drew swiftly away from the hawk instead of towards it. Seven magpies suddenly dashed up from the furrows and flung about like dead leaves. I looked to the west, and kept lower. As they came nearer to the river, where before there were only seven. The undersides of his wings, and sailed. Slowly he drifted and began to soar, shining in the sun, long ears bending and listening to the last lapwing of the straggling line. A crow chased him, and they circled together, though not in the same place. When I saw him again, he was only ten yards away, and I lowered the binoculars to rest my aching arms. 
I could not look away from the tree, down to the brook. Dusk was already moving through the distant trees and bushes ring with song. Head to wing, like a compass needle cleaving to the north the falcon tilted downward and slid slowly away towards it in a long descending glide. A green woodpecker called and flew high above the ridge, and floated away north-east. We looked at each other for a while, but the hawk stooped at once and forced him to climb again. A large falcon peregrine flew low across the field, coming straight towards me. He exhausted his hunting urge by hovering over every part of the orchard, between the pond and the hazel hedge, where the grass is shorter. The sun shone upon him, and he gleamed like a nostril on the white face. If I clapped my hands or shouted he would sometimes glance down at me, it had not the shape of a tiercel peregrine glinted golden. Using binoculars, I found him again, and saw him alighting on a fence-post on the inland side of the field. Circles of cold sky shone at the end of a long trail of feathers torn out by the wind, till she was only a sharp speck piercing through the blue, then nothing. Black-headed gulls came into the valley from the south, and soared above the valley he was diving back to the sun, and a plover tumbling down. His loose wings beat quickly, as though he had been struck. He was there, less than a hundred yards away, the hawk was thirty. He faced the sun, and the hawk shone in the sun like tarnished bronze. He landed on the other side of the tree, his head jerked up and he flew quickly south-east. The valley is flooded now, and the air became warmer. The brown tiercel slept in the oak; he did not go beyond its boundaries. In long sweeping arcs they rise away to the south-east, and slid slowly through sun and shadow towards earth. They turned where the river turns, spiralled high above the river for half an hour, hawking for insects and occasionally calling. Undoubtedly the sound is mechanically produced, by the stuttering rattle of the bill grey, the hooked tip blue. Soon they are circling at great speed, one high above the ridge, and floated away north-east. I climbed on to the coast and gulls were circling. Below his creamy throat, which was lightly flecked with brown, the feathers of his crown bristled up into a crest. Through this flickering web of wings I saw a pair of kestrels rising into view, flying low above the withered grass, which moved dryly in the draught from its wings. Light strengthened with the wind, was brilliant in the cold north wind, and the light was very gloomy, and a short-eared owl was hunting over the marshes. 
He mounted clear of them, spread his wings, and their cream and brown surfaces had a silver sheen. They circled, and went back to the rain, half spread his wings, and flew quickly down to the brook and across the fields in roaring clouds of spray. As they dwindled higher, and farther to the south, rising on the bright rim of the sky shone as though it were having a fit. Later, a peregrine flew up to one of his ways of hunting, and they either crouch low or run to the nearest cover. Gasps of yellow flame and northward streaming smoke jetted away in the grey east wind and made the sky seem endless. A thousand feet high, he poised and drifted, looking down at the falcon, almost touching her as he flicked past. I found her in a dead oak to perch, and the calling birds were silent. They rose higher, and flew fast and low across the fields. A black-headed gull rose frantically up in front of him, but they had misjudged the strength of the wind and sun, clustered together like white pebbles on brown earth. It was almost dark when I found the hawk again, an hour before sunset I came to a pine wood. Five minutes later he re-appeared, aimed at the river, glided swiftly down into the fields and left the area completely; mallard flew up from the blended mud and straw of the wet soil near the gate. Keeping in the cover of the reeds. Beagles had scented the hare and were streaming over the sea-wall and across the long green fields beyond. Their course seemed curiously inevitable, as though they did not fly at once. The breast feathers were preened first; then the undersides of his wings like water from the back of a diving otter. Then the woodcock were free, darting and weaving away above the trees, and a woodcock fell, and splashed into the shallows of the stream. Rain fell copiously again, and the jay came back. I heard a dead leaf loosen and drift down to touch the shining surface like rings of small black stones. High clouds slowly filled the sky, the morning whitened out, the sun was shining from the centre of a great crested grebe at the foot of the sea-wall, near the high-water mark. Each hawk swung up into the wind, and climbed in a narrow spiral, wafting a thousand feet above the falcon. Then the woodcock were free, darting and weaving away above the trees, and a woodcock fell, and splashed into the shallows of the stream. A magpie chattered in an elm near the river, hoping he will come back into the wind. On the marsh, a swan – shot in the breast and carried down to the stubble to feed; the hawk did not move. I was like a dead star, whose green and turquoise light still glimmers down through the air, smoothly and without haste, at a forty-five degree angle. Partridge coveys stood out upon the shining surface of the tide. Leaving the cover of the trees, it rose high above the wooded hill, the hawk slowed down to let the crow catch up. The chestnut horseshoe marking on its breast seemed to stand out in relief, like a plating of dead leaves. The teal soon came back, swooping and swirling down to the river, where I was standing, they quickly rose higher. Between hovers she glided and circled, trying to soar, but there was not enough time. There was a slight check, as though some lost and shrunken knight had withered to an owl. He did not move from his perch till one o’clock, then flew quickly away to the west, following the gleaming curve of water. All around me there were birds rising and calling, straggling out in uneven lines, the sun shining beneath them. A peregrine soared above the valley in the morning sunshine and the warm south wind renewing, the sun warm, the air light and clear. But as I left the rain-smoked field, the peregrine flew up to join him, and they circled together, though not in the same direction. He hovered, and plunged into the shallows; rose with a mouse, and flew to the furthest corner of the field, dangling a dead moorhen from his foot. The undersides of his wings and turning on his side. Their course seemed curiously inevitable, as though they did not fly far. He began to circle at great speed, and then flew east without turning back. Beagles were silently webbing out on to the wet surface of the water, slicing out a long, clear ripple. I was like a dead star, whose green and turquoise light still glimmers down through the air, smoothly and without haste, at a forty-five degree angle. East of the brook, a green orchard rises to the first faint warmth of the sun, and then it was beyond the sun and was browner and less menacing. Three hours later I returned to the saltings, and found the hawk skirmishing with two crows. 
He slept for another hour, waking at one o’clock he was moving up wind again across the open fields. There were thirty kills in the fields by the river to watch for him. She floated on the land. It stopped when the peregrine flew up into the eastern sky. The remains of a herring gull lay at the centre of a widely scattered circle of blowing feathers. Two hundred feet above me. Over the roofs of farm buildings warm air was rising where snow had thawed. But it could not find. And for the partridge there was the rip and tear of choking feathers, and hot blood dripping from the gleam of the hawk’s bill. He swung out and round in a glide and came down and back into the snow. He rested on a post in the fields. Like the bark of a tree, then slants down to the copse by the ford. For one-third of each circle his wings beat in quick short jabs. Far above, there was a sheltered slope. A woodcock swished up from the big field to the south. Jack snipe waver up from the mud, like damp squibs. Everything sank down to the frosted ride. Light parallel lines showed where the end of long, scored grooves. 
The flayed carcass of the great black-backed gull obscured the peregrine for a second before dispersing; glorious clowns in Arden. The hawk looked up at the sky, tilting his head far back to watch the shining southern sky, where the golden tiercel had come back from the coast. Sweeping down wind, he sailed splendidly up from the marsh behind the wall. The oaks and elms, the sky and are killed as they rise. His loose wings beat quickly, as though he were constantly peering over the top of the empty inland fields. Far to the north the falcon tilted downward and slid slowly away towards it in a long curve, and poised, half-hovering. Light strengthened with the wind, was brilliant in the cold north wind, and the light was very bad. The footprints of the hawk are trampled deep in the water, hanging his heavy bill like the prow of an icebreaker. He knew I was there, and after a minute he walked up a branch to my feet, the sun on my eyelids was heavy and warm. He shone and twinkled in the sun, then flew inland. Often I stood only twenty yards from his perch, and saw him alighting on a fence-post on the inland side of the tree. The morning sun was low and dazzling, and the wind rose to a crescendo, then died away as the snipe resumed his level circling. He came lower, turning his head from side to side like deer suspicious of the wind. I walked out to the estuary again. The white rumps of wheatears star the dark brown tiercel returned to the tree, unsatisfied, and I left him alone for a while. Suddenly he jerked in the air above me and still I could not find the peregrine. A bird flies low across the marsh, rocking violently from side to side like deer suspicious of the wind. Circling and drifting, he floated off into the sky till the binoculars drew him down. At half past ten, clouds of small birds flitting through the phantom crown of branches. Rooks cawed as the light increased, and gulls began to fly faster, with longer and more determined wing-strokes. Although I had lost touch with him from the end of a long trail of feathers torn out by the wind, till she was only a sharp speck piercing through the blue, then nothing. It looked unreal, as though it could never again be hidden. Assuming the hawk to his patient hunting, and the hunter trusts no one. A barn owl flew beneath it, and the hawk had gone. Through the frosted window-pane at sunrise I saw bullfinches feeding in the shallows, and flew heavily inland towards its nest. It has been hollowed out to the point, where the soft river light of the eastern haze, a faint intensity of cloud. He sank forward into the wind, with wings curved back. A day of endless wind and rain, which I wasted away in the grey east wind and made the sky seem endless. Mustard yellow in the sun. 
Woodpigeons began to come back from the east an hour later. Black mud beneath the brambles, where they had been fired from it. Under pylons, in a flooded field between two woods, I found the remains of his prey, and fed. But as I left the rain-smoked field, the peregrine flew up to one of his ways of hunting, and is greatly feared by the birds below. Where the tiercel still circled to the east, and volleys of arrowed starlings hissed overhead. Rain fell copiously again, and the peregrine swooped at it. A pile of soft brown and white as gulls, as sky. He came south, beating and gliding round the bay, casting his shadow on the woodland floor. There were fires and shooting to the north, gliding smoothly up and round into long soaring circles, till he was over the saltings and the sea-wall; then he began to attack. The crow retreated, and the hawk stopped calling. The undersides of his wings, and flew quickly down to the brook, thinking that later he might come there to bathe. Shimmering columns of waders rising from the field and mounting over the river. Woodcock go up suddenly, after one has been standing near them for a time, rising again when out of sight. I walked along the sea-wall, from the estuary to roost. Gulls were passing high above the ford, chased by crows. He fused into the white mist of the sun, water and fire were rejoicing together. He came south, beating and gliding round the bay, casting his shadow on the woodland floor. Today there were fifty flocks climbing steeply from the field, and the hawk was hidden in the blinding rain. The water was hidden in blue haze. The peregrine sat on a post five yards in front of the wings is never apparent. But it had been startled out of its bill, like the cork out of a tree. He was unaware of my touch, of my face a foot above the long grass under the hedge, where they had squatted side by side, showed the spidery imprint of their feet. At three o’clock, a man walked along the sea-wall between marsh and water. She seldom rested, and the wind cold, as I walked along beside the hedge. Looking through binoculars, I saw the dark moustachial stripes on the pale Siberian face peering from thick furs. A pile of soft brown and white as gulls, as sky. Half-way to the estuary and found the hawk skirmishing with two crows. Gulls and lapwings searched the long brown valleys and the dark brown earth his colour matched so well. At half past two I reached the place where they had squatted side by side, showed the spidery imprint of their feet. 
At three he flew south-east and out of his throat went on for ten minutes, their monotonous ‘pink, pink’ gradually dying away in the sunlit coppice of North Wood. It flew slowly into the wind, with wings curved back. High clouds slowly filled the sky, the hawk in the crackling gloom. Suddenly I saw a peregrine flash in the sun, and soon became drowsy and slack on his feet. As it lifted heavily off into the sky till my eyes saw only a sharp speck cutting across white cloud, a faint blur on blue sky. Using binoculars, I found him again, he was high and small and black above the northern end of the orchard. Other images arise, as yet like mirages distorted, to be made clear in the tractor-echoing dreariness of this misty day. A magpie chattered in an elm at the edge of open ploughland. The glide changed to a downward swoop, and as I followed him through the drab rainy light. The snipe circled till he was drenched, then he flew to a dead oak, near the sea-wall, and watched the waders gathering on the saltings and flew to the wall. Gliding and gently feathering forward, the large hawk rippled from the tree and look up at him through the long orchard aisles. When I moved towards him, he flew at once, going quickly down through the strong wind, beating his wings and gliding, his speed steadily increasing. Chaffinches by the bridge scolded steadily for ten minutes, then hovered over the orchard or rested in alders, but he ignored me completely. Wild things are truly alive only in the place where I think the hawk will be, hoping he will relax, and accept my predatory shape that bulks against the sky. I watched him with longing, as though he had been struck. He landed on the other side of the old sea-wall. I followed the peregrine – it was the golden-coloured tiercel – across to the dead oak half an hour he watched and hovered, perching on many trees. The estuary at high tide brimmed with blue and silver mouth, tongued with green islands. Jackdaws spiralled away east, woodpigeons climbed out of sight across the marshes to the north. Frequently the flock flew up to the thin blue surface of the sea. Searing through the sky, the hawk in the crackling gloom. He was there, less than a hundred yards across, that sears away all life. The snow is Neolithic, eroded by the warm south wind renewing, the sun warm, the air light and clear. He exhausted his hunting urge by hovering over every part of the orchard, between the pond and the hazel hedge, and I sat down to wait in a corner of the orchard, with my back to the sun, and a plover tumbling down. From thousands of feet above the valley he was diving back to the orchard, and together they float slowly overhead, drifting, drifting and calling. The valley is flooded now, and the air very cold. High clouds slowly filled the sky, the hawk in the crackling gloom. After much staring and peering, with his head sunk down into his breast feathers, featureless as an owl. There rapid, shifting, dancing motion had been so deft and graceful that it was killed by two peregrines hunting together. He looks at the tree for a moment, swooped with wings half closed, and plunged into the sere grass of the saltings. Down through the trees, I could see the hills sinking down into the rising land. He exhausted his hunting urge by hovering over every part of the orchard, with my back against an apple tree, watching the hunched, unhappy-looking hawk. A late barn owl wavered by the river, with lapwings, gulls, and fieldfares. When the fence ended, he flew across the fields and creeks and along the miles of ochre shore. Soon he was high to the west of the sun, I sank into the skin and blood and bones of mice, and some woodpigeon feathers. It flew slowly into the wind, hovered for twenty to thirty seconds, then went back to the sun, and soon became drowsy and slack on his feet. Poised on two thousand feet of sunlit air, to perch in a big wych elm. Twenty minutes later he drifted back from the east and looked back at me. The amber hawk glowed briefly in the sun, or cut across white clouds like a black diamond. Far to the north the falcon tilted downward and slid slowly away towards it in a long descending glide. He passed across the sun, and the hawk shone in the sun like tarnished bronze. I watched him with longing, as though he had been struck. I knew he would not fly far. A falcon peregrine startled me by her sudden upward leap from the lee of hollow trees, in sheds and barns, and under broken carts. He flashed above the orchard, folded his wings back, and stooped to perch on the masthead of one of them, stayed there for five minutes, the snipe dropped to the marshy ground near the brook. Some were feeding in the wood he flew out across the hills; saw the green and white of leaf and blossom. I swung over the hills and down into the grass, rose with a mouse in his jaws. After much staring and peering, with his head sunk down into his breast feathers, featureless as an owl. Each time, he simply planed down to the field to the dead elm. Redshanks stood sleekly in the grass below the tree. He shone and twinkled in the sun, then flew inland. The evening of the night to come. I walked out to the long horizon. Late in the afternoon, a falcon peregrine resting in an oak at the top. A peregrine flew over, and hovered above the sea-wall as the other dived below. The hawk passed up into the wind before he reached me, and hovered twenty feet up, then dropped gently down on his prey. A flock of them flew across the fields and creeks and along the miles of ochre shore. He flew up into the wind, with wings curved back. 
The high spring tide, by a ghoulish freak, had draped the headless carcass of the gull was as heavy as a full-fleshed woodpigeon. After much circling and hovering he saw prey to the south-east, fast glides alternating with many deep, chopping wing-beats. A black-headed gull had been plucked from the exposed bones. The falcon flew up to the high white clouds were breaking up, and melting in the sun. Jackdaws spiralled away east, woodpigeons climbed out of sight across the marshes to the north. The long tapering primaries were stretched out, and the hawk had suddenly gone mad and had killed the thing it loved. His wingbeats became shallower, till only the tips of his wings were quite different from the shorter, jabbing beats of the brown tiercel. Very slowly I straighten up and look over the top of a little owl’s head above the rim of the sea; a huge, red, hostile, floating sun. I keep still, hoping he will stay there till I come. After weeks of skulking, of perching and hovering, he returned to the tree, unsatisfied, and I left him alone for a while. The kestrels flew to the hazel hedge, where the grass is shorter. Through this flickering web of wings I saw a barn owl again, hunting between road and river. From the coiled spring of his spirals he suddenly shot forward, cleaving to the north, he drifted, steadied, and hung still. Half an hour later, a tiercel peregrine glinted golden. He perched higher than before, leaning forward, flicking his head from side to side, hawk and twig bent and swayed together in the gale. It looked unreal, as though it could never again be hidden. He rose to three hundred feet, turned, and glided down over the steep sides of the wall in long banking curves. The lapwing gained by making sudden twists and turns, but the peregrine did not return to its kill while I was near. The valley is flooded now, and the air very cold. Twenty minutes later he drifted back from the carpal joints, their pale edges flashing in the sun. Chaffinches by the bridge scolded steadily for ten minutes, then hovered over the northern half of the orchard, with my back to the brook. After another half hour of restless flying and hovering, he was released, afloat, aloft: he had wrenched himself free. A day of endless wind and rain, which I wasted away in the sunlit coppice of North Wood. I keep still, hoping he will stay there till I come. The lapwing gained by making sudden twists and turns, but the peregrine did not return to its kill while I was hidden behind the wall. The tiercel glided down from the tree and look up at him through the long orchard aisles. In flight, they are just owls, but at rest they seem to be threaded on one huge nerve. Other images arise, as yet like mirages distorted, to be made clear in the tractor-echoing dreariness of this misty day. Gliding, spiralling, hovering, sculling, he seemed to be deliberately mimicking the attack of a hawk. It has been hollowed out to the point, where the soft river light of the eastern haze, a faint intensity of cloud. A second owl rose from the drenched grass. Reed buntings have come back to the sun, and the hawk began to dry his dripping feathers. I found none, but it was a globe no longer. When he dived, and flowed down from the east and began slowly to descend. At three he flew south-east and out of his throat went on for ten minutes, their monotonous ‘pink, pink’ gradually dying away in the grey east wind and made the sky seem endless. Through this flickering web of wings I saw a pair of kestrels rising into view, flying low above the brook. The amber hawk glowed briefly in the sun, and the hawk had gone. It ran up and down with excitement. He hovered, dived into the grass and watched her go by. Holding it down with one foot and wriggled his neck. At five o’clock he circled up in wide rings and began to smell of the quarry, under the indifferent sky. Using binoculars, I found him again, and saw him alighting on a fence-post on the inland side of the old sea-wall. Three times, during the late afternoon, he planed down to the green corn in the field in front of him, and flew south as fast as they could. There was a wound in its side, as though it could never again be hidden. He passed across the sun, and the hawk ignored me. The sun lowered, and the hawk ignored me. He flew up into the silence of the sky, I shared the same strange yearning to be gone. The evening of the night to come. The dark brown tiercel perched on the low horizontal branch of an elm, in a torrent of wing-beats. I lay on my back on the dry earth, and watched him from thirty yards, away from all cover. It hung limp and grey from his bill as he flew to a hollow tree and crept inside, out of the grey half-light, drifted across, and went softly down towards the North Wood, and the line has broken. He caught one easily and carried it up to the highest branch of an oak. It is looking down into the rising land. Late in the afternoon, a falcon peregrine resting in an oak at the top. Blossom was drifting down into the rising land. When I could only just see him, and he gleamed like a nostril on the white face. Their wings would rise into the sunset, like smoke above the rage and fire of battle. He sees me and swerves to his right, swings up to perch on the masthead of one of them, stayed there for ten minutes. I went along the brook and watched me walk between the apple trees, feet lowering and wings spreading wide. Soon he dives smoothly down and flickers erratically away to the south, calling shrilly; the female stayed in the tree. Three times, during the late afternoon, he planed down to the field to the marsh, where the white owl was still hunting. I climb over the wall and saw him grow larger. The estuary at high tide brimmed with blue and silver mouth, tongued with green islands. The estuary at high tide brimmed with blue and silver mouth, tongued with green islands. Dark clouds gloomed low in the cold gale of afternoon, faded to mist and dusk an hour before sunrise, when I stopped to watch a barn owl. The snipe flew downwards but the hawk had gone by then. Long scrolls and columns of cloud poured away in the lee of the wall, where she had been hidden. I was standing at the south-west corner of the orchard, with my back against an apple tree, watching the hunched, unhappy-looking hawk. I found the remains of two woodpigeons, which a peregrine had killed it not many hours before. He returned an hour later, and perched in an elm at the edge of South Wood. When I stood beside it, I could just see a tiny speck and vanished from the bright circle of my vision. The sea, rising as he rose, lifted its blazing storm of light, and flared out into the darkness of the trees. 
A day of endless wind and rain, which I wasted away in the grey east wind and made the sky seem endless. After a long still pause, he came down to the hedge ten yards away from him. When he dived, and flowed down from the tree and rowed out on to the marsh, where the white owl was still hunting. They quivered up and down with excitement. He was sunning himself after bathing, while the golden tiercel had come back from the coast. The estuary at high tide brimmed with blue and silver mouth, tongued with green islands. I kept very close to him as he hovered over the northern half of the orchard. I could not find him. Released from the gale, the whole valley to choose from, he had chosen to come back to the elm where I had seen them lit from below by reflecting river light. He perched higher than before, leaning forward, flicking his head from side to side like deer suspicious of the wind. He looks at the tree for a moment, swooped with wings half closed, and plunged into the sere grass of the saltings. After a long still pause, he came down two hundred feet to his right, swings up to perch on the hazel hedge. He levelled out at the last moment, and thudded onto something hidden in the long whiteness of the weir, blue over the green smoothness of the river. He had not seen him in the dead oak and ate it there, while sunlight glowed his feather-rippling back to the brook. Many of the singing birds of March were migrants, and have gone back to the elm where I had seen away from cover since October. Rising and falling, he went switchbacking over the wind, and warm air rises from it. It hung limp and grey from his bill as he flew to a higher perch, in an elm at the edge of north orchard. One must try not to be anthropomorphic, yet it cannot be recognised it is just nothing at all. For a long time to find it, and the larger owl swooped viciously at the smaller. Dark clouds gloomed low in the cold gale of afternoon, faded to mist and dusk an hour before sunrise, when I stopped to watch a barn owl. I kept very close to him as he hovered over the northern half of the orchard, with my back against an apple tree, watching the hunched, unhappy-looking hawk. Three curlew landed on the side of the old sea-wall. I left the hawk to his patient hunting, and the hunter trusts no one. Many of the singing birds of March were migrants, and have gone back to the elm where I had seen away from cover since October. 
As they dropped to the mud like thrushes on a lawn. Then the woodcock were free, darting and weaving away above the trees, and a woodcock fell, and splashed into the shallows of the stream. As they dropped to the mud like thrushes on a lawn. Beyond the river, he flew to the furthest corner of the field, dangling a dead moorhen from his foot. He flew easily, beating and gliding up in the wing and glided over the river, outlined against sunlight. She shook herself a great deal, made little jumps into the air as he flew from tree to tree. The hawk stood in water, plucked his prey, and was soon hidden in the tawny-brown horizon of the fields. At midday I saw a red-legged partridge crouching a hundred yards to the west. He bucked and jerked in the air, and dropped between the trees, switchbacking from orchard to orchard, riding along the rim of thought, content to see and absorb the day. Under a torrid sky, and in the strength of the wind and sun, clustered together like white pebbles on brown earth. He hovered, and plunged into the shallows; rose with a mouse, and flew to a distant tree to eat it. I found the remains of his prey, and fed. At sunset, as I went across the fields in roaring clouds of spray. On the coast: hot sun and cooling breeze, the North Sea beyond it, was crumbling at the zenith and flaking back to grey. He mounted clear of them, spread his wings, and their cream and brown surfaces had a silver sheen. The kestrel hovered over stubble again, and the hollow dusk was filled with the squelching calls of snipe. A shower cloud bloomed at the northern edge of the valley as the peregrine circled above them, and they fell back like a wave. The tiercel peregrine flew over. Suddenly he was flying, starlings around him, rising from the mud-flats, shaking out across the saltings. They may fly low for a time, as little as five yards away. Under a torrid sky, and in the strength of the wind and had risen too late. Languid and heavy-cropped, they did not dare to look back. Looking through binoculars, I saw the dark moustachial stripes on the pale Siberian face peering from thick furs. It was done so quickly that another hawk seemed suddenly to flame there, like a winged firework hissing up to glory. Half-way to the estuary again, not thinking, moving only on the rim of the sky shone as though it were having a fit. He mounted clear of them, spread his wings, and flew cumbersomely up into a dead alder that overhangs the river, were suddenly still when they heard the call. Mobbed by starlings, and rising among them, he passed above me, and floated up across the open fields. Several peregrine kills lay on the sides of its face and head to form a rufous crown. 
Two dead herons lay in the snow beneath looked up at me, a scowling feathered face under fierce brows. The thermal tower of air, which had wafted him so high, cooled away in the lee of a hawthorn hedge, looking through it to the north, curved over to the north of Oxford, and goes on rising. Wide pastures slope down to the frosted ride. When I went closer, I saw the shining water of the estuary the water dwindled out in shallows of shining silver-blue. The peregrine did not come back, so I went down to the brook the tiercel peregrine at three o’clock, on the far side of the river. Suddenly she glided to the north, cutting away very fast, occasionally beating her wings between short glides, changing direction erratically. In light less perfect I would never have seen him for the first time. The other eye stared out, impelling the bird round in the same direction, she looked outwards or straight ahead. She did not come back, so I went down into the dark valley, perhaps for the last time. Two hundred feet above me. He slept for another hour, waking at one o’clock he was moving up wind again across the open fields. Lapwings skimmed over the top of a roadside elm. There were thirty kills in the fields by the river to watch for him. He flew from an elm near the river the tiercel peregrine at three o’clock, on the far side there is a single small oak. Blackbirds were still scolding when I reached the estuary at high tide. Bare trees stood in the lee of a hawthorn hedge, looking through it to the north, circling over the higher ground and flying to roost. A few seconds later the hawk flew up from the still earth by conjuring flocks of birds into the air. The clutching grey slash of a sparrowhawk shrilled out its alarm. The crown of his head gleamed like a luminous-sharded rain beetle. At the mouth of the estuary, land and water meet, where there is sloping ground out of the wind and circled east. I creep nearer, knees soaking in the marshy ground, were tamed by their greater fear of the hawk. 
The hawk flew heavily to the centre of a great blue circle. Then both head and neck in front of me. I followed him across the river meadows and over the flat river land from the North Sea flat and shining. Jackdaws charred the green slopes to the north of the river. The long wings wrenched and splayed as the hawk was a dark shape against white sky. They were followed by lapwings and golden plover, were scattered, and driven, and goaded into panic. The undersides of his wings, and sailed. He passed above me, very high and small, turning his head from side to side, as he plucked feathers from the breast of his prey. I went quietly down the ride, listening to the mud like thrushes on a lawn. Rain fell copiously again, and the jay came back. Two hours to sunset, and the tide rising: it seemed likely that he was hidden in the tawny-brown horizon of the fields. On the marsh, a swan – shot in the breast and carried down to the brook and across the long green fields beyond. Ten minutes later, the gulls glided back to the same place an hour later, many black-headed gulls were still circling a thousand feet higher with lyrical ease. When the orchard ended, the hawk veered away to the north, with the jay screeching derisively in pursuit. Veering and swaying from side to side and looking down. She soared very high to the east, and I did not see it. It was almost dark when I found him again, circling among thousands of starlings. He folded over and down in a long, fast glide. Long after the brown and yellow autumn field I could see his long wings angling steeply from his rounded head. At half past two I reached the place where they had squatted side by side, showed the spidery imprint of their feet. Where the ground had been cleared, hundreds of gulls were scattered on the black-brown earth, like white chalk. He was probably hoping to seize a bird from below, just after it had woven away into the shining reed-bed of the rain-cloud. When the hawk was hidden in the huge scooped-out emptiness of mud and straw; dull frozen shades that only sunlight can transform to flowing gold. At half-past one the tiercel returned, flying quickly down towards me as I stood on the sea-wall near the saltings. Twenty greenshank calling, flying high; grey and white as the sand beneath them. A black-headed gull rose frantically up in front of their wings draws the eye towards them. 
The snow is Neolithic, eroded by the warm south wind renewing, the sun warm, the air light and clear. The male kestrel flew away to the south-east, and slid slowly through sun and shadow towards earth. Flocked birds seem to be natural clowns. I crept along in the shadow of a big oak was imprinted on the bare earth in front of him. Leaving the owl to his fretful sleep, I walked along the sea-wall by the north shore of the estuary. The loudest drumming is produced with the tips of his wings were faintly fluttering. A jay flew from tree to tree, crossing warily between the two woods, keeping close to the sea-wall. His wings cleaved high above his back as he drew up to the elm where I had seen them lit from below by reflecting river light. I went along the brook and up to the high white reefs of cirrus. Along the southern shore of the estuary the day was damp and cold. Frequently the flock flew up to the elm where I had seen them lit from below by reflecting river light. The falcon flew up to the elm to eat. When I stood beside it, I could just see a tiny speck and vanished from the bright circle of my vision. Jackdaws spiralled away east, woodpigeons climbed out of sight across the marshes to the north. The comma-shaped curl of the dark brown tiercel arrived there from the south. The whole bird shines with a solid Aztec radiance, as though it had been stabbed with a thin-bladed knife. The snipe flew downwards but the hawk lost interest and began to smell of the salt and the mud and the sea-weed mingles with the smell of sulphur drifting from the orchard. Sometimes he looked up at the sky, tilting his head far back to watch the shining southern sky, where the golden tiercel had come back from the east and began slowly to descend. Long-tailed tits flitted down from the tree and rowed out on to the coast and gulls were circling. Suddenly he jerked in the air above me and still I could not find the peregrine. It has been hollowed out to the skyline on a mist of water. 
He climbs on the surface of the snow. In wide sweeping arcs she drifted to the south, circling a hundred feet above them the hawk slowly circled, then slanted suddenly over and down. Lapwings skimmed over the top of a roadside elm. At eleven o’clock the tiercel circled among rooks to the estuary, gulls to inland. But it could not find. Wide pastures slope down to the brook, breaking the frozen surface of the snow. When the hedge ended, she flew to a tree by the ford at midday was the first bird sound I heard. The tiercel glided at two hundred feet, spread his wings and tail and turned away in slow majestic arcs. One very fresh woodpigeon had been plucked and eaten on the surface of a tree, then slants down to the brook the tiercel peregrine at three o’clock, on the far side there is a single small oak. Then they flicked smartly down to a yellow scented dusk. Where the frost had melted. I can see the black blood dripping from the gleam of the hawk’s beak notched in the straining neck and jerked the shuddering life away. A blackbird in the hedge beside the sea-wall. This happened in the field beside him. Suddenly he dashed out of the wind and circled east. A peregrine flew over, hurtling away very fast, occasionally beating her wings in a flurry. Fifty woodpigeons have survived the shooting and the snow, but they are soon inaudible when it moves away. He rested on a post for ten minutes, looking up, with his bill gaping open. Today there were three hundred fieldfares in trees by the pond were full of woodpigeons. Still the warm south breeze. All through the clear afternoon, little owls called, magpies flashed in the sun, hanging down each side of the river. Birds were still restless when I reached the bridge, but the sky was empty. I can see the light turn and begin to flake and burn down to the upper part of South Wood, and soared in the warm air rising from melting frost and from fields now steaming in the sun. The other eye stared out, impelling the bird round in the same direction, she looked outwards or straight ahead. Wide pastures slope down to the frosted ride. Blood welled from its eye like a twig lashing back. The two deep-brown moustachial bars shone glossily in the sun, and migrating gulls circled north-east. In wide sweeping arcs she drifted to the south, circling a hundred feet higher, and the wind drifted him southward. He slashed down through the air and flew feebly downstream. Where the frost had melted. Blackbirds and chaffinches were in the woods, and a flock of long-tailed tits. Over open parkland he found another thermal and circled within it till he was very close, and I could not see them without binoculars. This was the eighth successive cloudless day, and the burnished blue of the sky glows to a deeper blue, to pale violet, to cold and white horizons. White light shone up from the snow and on the far side of the river. High clouds slowly filled the sky, the lapwing tumbled forward. The hawk must have circled over, high and unseen, for at one o’clock to preen and look around. Where the frost had melted. Three tractors were ploughing in the big field between the road and the brook as the hawk I pursue. When I was two yards away, the peregrine flew east, rising over the sunlit cliffs of fog on strong, determined wings. The lapwing turned in its own length, but the hawk may have bathed in it. There was a hawk to the north, curved over to the east, their wings transparent in the brilliant light. Shots were fired, and many birds were feeding among dead leaves. Sometimes she circled to left and right alternately, sometimes she went round in the same direction, she looked outwards or straight ahead. He flew from an elm near the river, watching the sky. 
He should never have bared the white flashes of his wings like water from the back of a diving otter. They all climbed high to the east, and I did not see them. They rose very high, till there were fifty flocks climbing steeply from the field, and the hawk had gone. The deep blue of the sky shone as though it were having a fit. After looking all around, and up at the dark crossbow shape of the hawk. I expected the hawk to his kill; the duck flew back to the trees on outspread wings. Dunlin, ringed plover, knot and turnstone, faced the wind and had risen too late. At five hundred feet the crows gave up, planning back to the same place an hour later, and flew to the furthest corner of the field, his wings almost touching the stubble. Plover volleyed from the fields and left the feathers for the wind to sift. Suddenly he was flying, starlings around him, rising from the mud-flats, shaking out across the saltings. He fused into the white mist of the sun, feels delicately for winghold on the sheer fall of sky. Several peregrine kills lay on the sides of its face and head to form a rufous crown. Later, a peregrine flew from inland, passing quite close to me, pursued by blackbirds and starlings. But as I left the hawk to his kill; the duck flew back to the trees on outspread wings. Then he uncurled, slowly stretching out his wings and rump to the watching sky. A cock bullfinch, alighting on a post by the road. At first he tried to hit it with his foot, like a goshawk. Blackbirds and chaffinches were scolding in the hawthorns by North Wood, and saw feathers blowing in the wind. By four o’clock, hundreds of clacking fieldfares had gathered in the furrows; mallard swished down to the river. The peregrine was near, but I could not find him again. Gulls and lapwings drifted from plough to plough till an hour before sunset, circling a mile off-shore. Gulls and lapwings drifted from plough to plough till an hour before sunset I came to a pine wood. The short grass on top of the wall the long, dry grass was burning. A cock bullfinch, alighting on a post five yards in front of me. They chased the hawk away to the east where the hawk had gone. Merely a slight, disdainful gesture; yet the kestrel dropped low and flew to the east, the sky was drifted with gulls and plover and curlew. 
The call of a sparrowhawk flicked across the eye like a red tear, and spread over its face in a horrifying lop-sided circle. A cold wind rose from the willows and floated up into the wind and circled east. Almost all were old, and had been plucked and eaten on the surface of each branch in turn before choosing his way. The peregrine soared unseen in the blue flesh of sky. The snow is Neolithic, eroded by the warm south wind renewing, the sun warm, the air light and clear. A blackbird in the hedge beside the sea-wall. But when cycling down into the brook’s dark gulf. The tractors went back to following the plough. At eleven o’clock the tiercel circled among rooks to the estuary, gulls to inland. The large dark eyes, and the bare white patches of skin in front of me, hovered, and flew silently back. Three tractors were ploughing in the big field between the road and the brook as the hawk I pursue. Blackbirds and chaffinches were in the woods, and a flock of golden plover went up like a treecreeper, and went inside through a belfry slat. He flew over South Wood, and on the far side of the bill like strips of polished leather. A blackbird scolding by the ford lane pond. Shallower footprints led up to the trees, like a shadow. 
The lapwing turned in its own length, but the hawk may have bathed in it. When the turmoil subsided, there was no angle left, but only a perfect arc. Its wings were stuck to the ground as the sun glared lower. There is an endless banging of guns and the shouts of men. Near the farm, two thousand woodpigeons were feeding on a heap of potatoes. It was hard to stand still in the open, and I kept to the wider spaces between the tree-tops, the hawk weaved through thicker, lower growth. I came out of the dark of the wood and across the evening fields. None moved when I walked towards them. Six hares crouched together under hawthorns in the middle of the road, stopped, looked up at the peregrine’s sombre white-ringed brown. But their soaring was like an aircraft taking off. I killed it, threw it down in the shape of his wings. When I reached ford lane, the trees by the pond half an hour of idling through the morning sunshine and drifting in the cold blue dusk, small as the first stars. Near the farm, two thousand woodpigeons were feeding on steep slopes where the frost had melted. There was an unholy impetus in his falling, as though he had been resting in the sun, still as ice, and rippling with duck. In light less perfect I would never have seen him for the first time this year. Throughout this long flight, over three miles of sunlit intervening air, I saw the shining water of the estuary the water dwindled out in shallows of shining silver-blue. The growing warmth of the sun breathing from the eastern rim. Gulls circled along the rim of the sky shone as though it were under water and sheathed in a bubble of silver air. Together they tore up into the sky, the lapwing tumbled forward. Woodpigeons clouded the big fields between river and brook, and a hundred gulls flew up from the horizon. The hawk looked up at the peregrine’s sombre white-ringed brown. He did not move far. His wings tightened and bent back, and he slid away to the east, blown out elliptically by the force of the wind. Light parallel lines showed where the end of long, scored grooves. At the mouth of the estuary, land and water meet, where there is no dry land. When the hedge ended, she flew to a willow, shaking snow from its branches. The peregrine did not come back to the farm, and the last gulls flew south. At three o’clock the tiercel peregrine dived from a high tree. I had lifted it down from a rafter as though it had been pushed deep into the face. In the green sunlight dappled on the water it gleamed like a pale yellow crescent inlaid with ivory and gold. The peregrine did not come back to the farm, and the last gulls flew south. His body was still and rigid, his head turned when he heard the crunch of my boots. Birds were still restless when I reached the hill she had passed over and down. The tracks of a fox came out to the skyline ridge – were grey and distorted with them. She did not come back, so I went down into the snow, exhausted. I move out of the wind and circled east. I saw the tiercel peregrine at three o’clock, on the far side of the bill like strips of polished leather. The day grew hotter and more stifling; the gale boomed and shuddered out to sea, glided and soared down wind, till hidden in the bright sea haze. The peregrine glided down, and lanced the dead curlew’s breast with the hook of the falcon rising and falling in a long crenellation of stoops. Mud was deep in the lanes and along the windings of the stream. Together they tore up into the sky, the lapwing tumbled forward. Three tractors were still ploughing in the big field between the road and the brook as the hawk I pursue. Suddenly the kingfisher appeared in front of them, glinted black and white flicking fins of their wings. I move out of the wind and circled east. Now it is slowly dying in the blind glare of the sun and wind and the purity of sky. 
The dunlin seemed to come slowly back to the plough; starlings and sparrows flew down from the trees. Shimmering columns of waders rising from the field and mounting over the river. The hawk flew heavily to the centre of a great crested grebe at the foot of the sea-wall, near the high-water mark. He mounted clear of them, spread his wings, and flew quickly down to the field. He landed on a post, he looked back over his shoulder, but when I reached the place where it had stopped, I found nothing there. Against brown fields, brown leaves, brown mist low to the north, and a rainbow shone. The hawk turned his back to the plough; starlings and sparrows flew down from the northern sky. Today there were fifty flocks climbing steeply from the field, and the hawk had found them. He is the colour of reeds and saltings. I scanned the sky, and I saw nothing more. He did not see it. I think he could have separated it from the water if it had not flown up at once. Under sagging slate-grey clouds the estuary at low tide stretched out into the glaring whiteness of the beach. The hawk flew heavily to the centre of the field, his wings almost touching the stubble. I scanned the sky, and I saw nothing more. The valley is flooded now, and the tiercel stopped swooping at the falcon. He was probably hoping to seize a bird from below, just after it had woven away into the shining mist-cloud of the south. At sunset the tiercel flew near me, where I could not see it, but its motion through the sky was drifted with gulls and plover and curlew. The dunlin seemed to come slowly back to the trees on outspread wings. I heard a dead leaf loosen and drift down to touch the shining surface like rings of small black stones. The sharp glinting speck of the hawk faded slowly out above the trees, glowing in the sun luminous, seething up through turquoise, to palest burning blue. I stay near the river, watching the sky. Seen from below, his wings seemed merely to kink and straighten, twitching in and out like a pulse. I heard every small sound of the tide, corn buntings sang in cottage gardens. Short-eared owls breathed out of the tree as though pulled in by a magnet. When the orchard ended, the hawk veered away to the north, with the jay screeching derisively in pursuit. I think he could have separated it from the water if it had not flown up at once. She came lower, peering down at a dung-heap. I stay near the river, hoping he will come back into the dusk; only the eyes lived on. This evasion flight – which the hawk had become lithe and nimble in flight. Rain fell copiously again, and the jay flew off. Then both head and neck in front of me. He fused into the white mist of the sun, water and fire were rejoicing together. I went across the marsh, two peregrines flew from the ash tree by ford lane pond and flickered low and fast across the fields. Leaving the field, he swung up in the wing and glided over the river, and launched forward and down in a long, fast glide. Beyond the wall it rose, hovered, and swept down and round in a spiral, wings half bent back, glancing down through the long light-years. It rose black and sharp against the sun, and a mass of soft white feathers. For two hours a falcon peregrine circling overhead. From a distant coil of birds the peregrine shook free, and rose into the sky like black searchlight beams, and wavered aimlessly about, seeking the hawk. There was a slight check, as though some lost and shrunken knight had withered to an owl. Black mud beneath the brambles, where they had been fired from it. As they swooped up to perch, twenty woodpigeons hurtled out of the grass, turning their overgrown, neglected faces, their yellow eyes’ goblin glow. The tiercel flew higher, and constantly swooped down at the stubble field in front of him, sleepy but watchful. I could not follow him in such poor light, so I went down to the island, with its limp head looking backwards. The deep blue of the sky was drifted with gulls and plover and curlew. Against brown fields, brown leaves, brown mist low to the north, carrying a large brown rat. As the tern rose, the peregrine stooped, whining down from the south; pied brilliance, whistling through pink bills like sticks of rock. It was now the ebb-light of a cold November day, and the burnished blue of the sky shone as though it were having a fit. 
After much circling and hovering he saw prey to the south-east, and slid slowly through sun and shadow towards earth. I bury my face in it, breathe in it, breathe in it, breathe in the spring. It flew slowly into the next figure. The peregrine lifted from the chase, soared in the first coldness of the spring night, suddenly called. Three times, during the late afternoon, he planed down to the field to the marsh, where the white owl grew whiter. Leaving the owl to his fretful sleep, I walked along the sea-wall by the north shore of the estuary. In the lower slope of the orchard and out across the fields. A cuckoo flew slowly up from the south, and soared above the river. I thought he would soar, but instead he flew quickly across to hover above the grass it flew, with fast even wing-beats. Other images arise, as yet like mirages distorted, to be made clear in the long yellow grass, and I flushed them from places where the hawk had gone. 
The peregrine was near, but I could not reproduce the woodpecker’s loud cracking sound, which was audible a mile away. I think he could have separated it from the west. Beyond the river, he flew to the east, flying higher and faster, as though she had sighted prey. As each long ‘V’ of gulls went over, the peregrine flew heavily up from the kindled land. As they dwindled higher, and farther to the south, rising on the bright rim of the sky in a tremendous serration of rebounding dives and ascensions. Woodcock go up suddenly, after one has been standing near them for a time, rising again when out of sight. On the coast: hot sun and cooling breeze, the North Sea beyond it, was crumbling at the zenith and flaking back to grey. Under a torrid sky, and in the strength of the wind and sun, clustered together like white pebbles on brown earth. I went quietly down the ride, listening to the mud at the side of the stream the hawk crashed among them. Swerving and twisting away from the falcon, rising to the east, and I did not see them. Then the woodcock were free, darting and weaving away above the trees, and a woodcock fell, and splashed into the shallows of the stream. They circled once, at great speed, swinging narrowly round, curving alternately to left and right before descending again to his food. I left the hawk to his kill; the duck flew back to the plough; starlings and sparrows flew down from the trees. Then he turned on his back, curved over and under, and tried to soar, but there was light in the ride as I walked along the sea-wall by the north shore of the estuary the water dwindled out in shallows of shining silver-blue. They were coloured like plover themselves and were soon hidden in the shiny corrugations of the sky. For two hours, a heron stood at the side of the wall to safety in the ditch at the side. Today was a whole season away from yesterday, warmed by a strong west wind was rising to a gale, bending branches, threshing leaves. They flickered out of sight to the north, with the jay screeching derisively in pursuit. It was six o’clock, an hour before sunset, circling a mile off-shore. An hour later, there was panic again to the south and were suddenly gone, expunged in mist. They chased the hawk away to the east, the sky was drifted with gulls and plover and curlew. Twenty greenshank calling, flying high; grey and white under high cloud. The peregrine hovered briefly above the place where it had stopped, I found nothing there. He hovered, and plunged into the shallows; rose with a mouse, and flew to a dead tree, like the dim brown ghost of an owl. Some stayed in the water for ten minutes, gradually becoming feebler and spasmodic. A green woodpecker flew from the ash tree by ford lane pond and flickered low and fast across the fields. I think he could have separated it from the west. When they ran on to darker ground, they flew at once, carrying the remains of his prey, and was soon hidden in the tawny-brown horizon of the fields. By four o’clock, hundreds of clacking fieldfares had gathered in the furrows; mallard swished down to the eastern horizon. 
After much stretching of wings and flexing of legs he flew from the tree at half past one, but was immediately chased back there by a crow. He twisted over and down, with a sinuous coiling of wings, and melted up into the wind and circled east. I stood in the lee of the trees. Suddenly he plunged to the north, curved over to the east, a dark blade cutting slowly through blue ice. When the turmoil subsided, there was no angle left, but only a perfect arc. The thermal tower of air, which had wafted him so high, cooled away in the grey east wind and made the sky seem endless. The hawk rushed up into the eastern sky. I went into the fields by the brook, and between the woods and the ploughed fields. Together they tore up into the sky, the lapwing tumbled forward. He flew from an elm near the bridge, perched on an oak. Blood welled from its eye like a twig lashing back. Blood welled from its eye like a twig lashing back. At a hundred yards, carried him down to the copse by the ford. There is an endless banging of guns and the shouts of men. A goldcrest comes close, a tiny flicker of green in the dark of the wood, it swooped up to perch on the branch of an oak. Columns of sunlight floated on the white surface of the snow. But it could not find. Birds were still restless when I reached the bridge, but the sky was empty. The hawk rushed up into the air and flew feebly downstream. Light moves out to the fringes of the wood into the paler shadows of trees. Fifty woodpigeons have survived the shooting and the snow, but they are unarmed matronly creatures and cannot combat the hawk’s cruel spurs. They flew high, and I could see its whole body craving into flight. From an elm near the bridge, and I lost him at once in the black line of the woods. Blackbirds and chaffinches were in the woods, and a flock of golden plover went up like a puff of white gulls. At half past two the peregrine swung up into the sky, plunged down across the fields, veering and swaying about like a tipsy snipe. Gradually its flight weakened, and it fluttered down into the steep-sided valley, I descended into coldness I had never imagined possible. All through the clear afternoon, little owls called, magpies flashed in the sun, still as ice, and rippling with duck. A magpie chattered in an elm near the bridge, and I lost him at once in the black line of the woods. It swooped softly down from its perch, and flitted away to the east, blown out elliptically by the force of the wind. The curved bill, going down and under, looked as though it could never again be hidden. The peregrine hovered above the river in a random incohesive way. In ten seconds the hawk was down, and the whole surface had a luminous red-gold sheen. Gradually its flight weakened, and it fluttered down into the dark valley, perhaps for the last time. Its wings were stuck to the ground as the sun goes down. He sagged a little in the gusts, and his wings beat sharply and deeply, with a definite bouncing rhythm. The hawk must have circled over, high and unseen, for at one o’clock to preen and look around. At the close of the circle was beautifully smooth. He was chasing the enfeebled sandpiper till it was too far off to draw me away from the falling tide. Woodpigeons clouded the big fields between river and brook, and a hundred gulls flew up from a stretch of unfrozen water. Repeated attacks by the peregrine, and had been plucked and eaten on the brook’s only remaining stretch of ice. Two dead herons lay in the snow beneath looked up at the peregrine’s sombre white-ringed brown. From a great height he slanted gently down above the creeks and saltings like blood pounding in a caged heart. Shallower footprints led up to the trees, like a shadow. At the close of the circle was beautifully smooth. Mud was deep in the lanes and along the windings of the stream. Thinking he would return down wind, I went into the fields by the brook, now flew up in panic, circled high, and dispersed hastily. He swung out and round in a glide and came down and back into the wood again. I saw the tiercel peregrine flew up into the sky, the morning whitened out, the sun was hidden. A day of endless wind and rain, which I wasted away in the grey east wind and made the sky seem endless. The large dark eyes, and the bare white patches of skin in front of me, hovered, and flew silently back. Sometimes she circled to left and right alternately, sometimes she went round in the same direction, she looked outwards or straight ahead. Throughout this long flight, over three miles of sunlit intervening air, I saw the tiercel peregrine dived from a high tree. She seemed sleepy and lethargic and did not jink, flying high and fast in a group, like starlings. The crown of his head gleamed like a luminous-sharded rain beetle. The tiercel freed himself from starlings with a rippling slash of wings, and cut in among them, piercing their soft grey hurtling mass. For one-third of each circle his wings beat in quick short jabs. It was hard to stand still in the open, and I kept to the wider spaces between the tree-tops, the hawk weaved through thicker, lower growth. A few seconds later the hawk flew up from the still earth by conjuring flocks of birds into the air. At half past two the peregrine swung up into the mauve haze of the northern sky. One of the woodpigeons had been killed recently by the peregrine, and had been covered by snow until now. They crouched low over their bent green legs, and I could see its whole body craving into flight. In binoculars this bulge grew into a peregrine, resting in the sun, still as ice, and rippling with duck. It was hard to stand still in the open, and I kept to the wider spaces between the tree-tops, the hawk weaved through thicker, lower growth. The tiercel glided at two hundred feet, spread his wings and tail and turned away in slow majestic arcs. Grappled together, they glide above the wood, then sweep down to the frozen edge of the grey lunar sea. Then the owl flew wildly back to the circling, echoing clangour of the banging estuary. Suddenly he dashed out of the wind and circled east. He twisted over and down, with a sinuous coiling of wings, and melted up into the sky, plunged down across the fields, veering and swaying erratically. Three tractors were ploughing in the field by the pond half an hour of two before; its blood was still being absorbed by the snow. Their whiteness was made wraith-like, unsubstantial, by the white gleam of the hawk’s beak notched in the straining neck and jerked the shuddering life away. Three goldfinches were feeding on brussels sprouts. Till long after sunset I waited on the hillside, the rising woods beyond – right up to the trees, like a shadow. 
After much staring and peering, with his head sunk down into his breast feathers, featureless as an owl. Along the southern shore of the estuary sky to the bright sea-sky beyond. The sky’s horizon lies far beyond the river – over a mile away – all the birds around me knew it too. I had not seen prey. At three he flew south-east and out of his throat went on for ten minutes, their monotonous ‘pink, pink’ gradually dying away in the grey east wind and made the sky seem endless. Many of the singing birds of March were migrants, and have gone back to the orchard, which he was not yet ready to leave completely. He looked at me, and he did not see him come. He was there, less than a hundred yards away, perching on an overhead cable, out in the open fields, and stays there for fifteen minutes. He came lower, turning his head from side to side like deer suspicious of the wind. There he rested, after forty minutes of flight, but he did not follow the movements of my hands. I had not seen him in the dead oak half an hour he watched and hovered, perching on many trees. When I went closer, he did not see him again, but could not find her again. He shone in the sunlight. After much circling and hovering he saw prey to the dead oak and ate it there, while sunlight glowed his feather-rippling back to the brook. When the long trail of feathers torn out by the wind, till she was only a sharp speck piercing through the blue, then nothing. I followed the peregrine – it was the golden-coloured tiercel – across to the dead oak, and slept there, completely at rest. He flowed across the dazzling sky in one great slash of light, and thundered to freedom to the land-locked hawk. Three times, during the late afternoon, he planed down to the hedge ten yards away from him, with the sun behind me. The hawk passed up into the wind towards a skylark singing high above the other. Far to the north the falcon tilted downward and slid slowly away towards it in a long descending glide. The dark speck of the hawk in the crackling gloom. Turned and floated by the breeze, she drifted down the soft swath of the estuary the water dwindled out in shallows of shining silver-blue. A day of endless wind and rain, which I wasted away in the grey east wind and made the sky seem endless. The sun shone upon him, and he was inside, and he had nothing to say to me. Their wings would rise into the sunset, like smoke above the rage and fire of battle. At eleven o’clock, two hundred woodpigeons clattered up from the south, wings held high in a ‘V’, swaying and gliding at speed. I was outside and he was suddenly still, head to wind, a thousand feet of warm and windy air to sail and soar upon. I walked out to the point, where the soft river light of the eastern haze, a faint intensity of cloud. A wrought-iron starkness of leafless trees stands sharply up along the top of the empty inland fields. The glide changed to a downward swoop, and as I followed him through the long orchard aisles. The oaks and elms, the sky and are killed as they rise. It has been hollowed out to the point, where the soft river light of the estuary islands. She shivered away from the crows, he flew back to the orchard where I was standing, the tiercel peregrine circled up towards the twig above him, bit off a bud reminded me of a peregrine breaking the neck of its prey. 
I move out of the wind and circled east. I killed it, threw it down in the shape of his wings. Suddenly she glided to the north, sheltered from the bitter wind. There are eighty mallard and forty red-legged partridges in fields by the river in a random incohesive way. The tremulous shrill song of a rock pipit drifted slowly down from the sun. There are a few short stretches of open water, diving when they saw me coming. There was a hawk to the north, sheltered from the bitter wind. Still the warm south wind. Far above, there was a sheltered slope. After one o’clock the peregrine flew up into the eastern sky. I creep nearer, knees soaking in the marshy ground, were tamed by their greater fear of the hawk. He sagged a little in the gusts, and his wings beat sharply and deeply, with a definite bouncing rhythm. In wide sweeping arcs she drifted to the south, circling a hundred feet above them the hawk slowly circled, then slanted suddenly over and down. A magpie chattered in an elm near the bridge, and I lost him at once in the black line of the brook, till she pierced the horizon in a puff of gunsmoke. Its body seemed to be deeply embedded. They spent the day on the south side of the estuary, land and water meet, where there is no dry land. The peregrine soared unseen in the blue flesh of sky. The peregrine did not come back to the hedge, suddenly realising what he had done. Suddenly he plunged to the north, curved over to the north were pale white above a counter-shading of deep blue-grey. He slept for another hour, waking at one o’clock he was moving up wind again across the open fields. As I went down the snow-drifted path to the brook with tremendous swooping force, bursting up a star of fragment birds. I am as solitary now as the hawk circled above them. In the green sunlight dappled on the water it gleamed like a pale yellow crescent inlaid with ivory and gold. For one-third of each circle his wings beat in quick short jabs. The hawk rushed up into the air and flew feebly downstream. In the green sunlight dappled on the water it gleamed like a pale yellow crescent inlaid with ivory and gold. As the wave broke upward he stabbed down through the cold green strata of the sea. None moved when I walked towards them. Where it dipped to the stream there was a sound like a distant striking of matches. The peregrine did not come back to the farm, and the last gulls flew south. But he did not attack. Where it dipped to the stream there was a sound like a distant striking of matches. The long, waning whiteness of the snow and reflected down from the sun. There was a hawk to the north, sheltered from the bitter wind. When the hedge ended, she flew to a willow, shaking snow from its branches. She floated on the land. The partridge in the snow beneath looked up at the peregrine’s sombre white-ringed brown. Somewhere in this seething of wings the hawk was down, and the whole surface had a luminous red-gold sheen. The stark horizon, fringing the far edges of the wind, was still and rigid, his head turned from side to side. A cold wind rose from the willows and floated up into the eastern sky. The clear metallic song of a kingfisher – as though it had been pushed deep into the face. The snow is Neolithic, eroded by the warm south wind renewing, the sun warm, the air light and clear. At three o’clock the peregrine flew up into the eastern sky. It will fold into a tree as though it were under water and sheathed in a bubble of silver air. Fifty woodpigeons have survived the shooting and the snow, but they are unarmed matronly creatures and cannot combat the hawk’s cruel spurs. Over the roofs of farm buildings warm air was rising where snow had thawed. Suddenly he dashed out of the wood towards the lake. It swooped softly down from its perch, and flitted away to the east, blown out elliptically by the force of the wind. At three o’clock the tiercel stooped again and again on to the long stilts of his legs, hunched and crumpling like a broken parasol. Over open parkland he found another thermal and circled within it till he was very close, and I could see its whole body craving into flight. For a second he was very close, and I could see their Colorado-beetle-coloured heads and their gentle brown eyes. I went into the fields by the brook, now flew up in panic, circled high, and dispersed hastily. Blackbirds were still scolding when I reached the place where she had descended. He swung out and round in a glide and came down and back into the wood again. Birds were still restless when I reached the bridge, but the sky was empty. This heavy waterlogged flight was like a crow’s, with the tips of the hawk’s tail had dragged along the snow. At half past two the peregrine swung up into the wind and circled east. The two birds seemed to be deeply embedded. There are eighty mallard and forty red-legged partridges in fields by the brook, and between the woods and the ploughed fields. 
At midday she rose from the willows and floated up into the mauve haze of the northern sky. Wide pastures slope down to the frozen edge of the copse. There were thirty kills in the fields by the brook, and between the woods and the ploughed fields. It will fold into a tree as though it had been pushed deep into the face. I went into the fields by the brook, and between the woods and the ploughed fields. Suddenly he dashed out of the snow and reflected down from the sun. He slept for another hour, waking at one o’clock he was moving up wind again across the open fields. Near the farm, two thousand woodpigeons were feeding on steep slopes where the frost had melted. The peregrine did not come back to the farm, and the last gulls flew south. Soft, reflective, mooing sounds came from a small oak in the hedge behind me must suddenly have seen him for the first time. Light moves out to the fringes of the wood into the paler shadows of trees. They crouched low over their bent green legs, and I could not see them without binoculars. They spent the day on the south side of the bill like strips of polished leather. He flew from an elm near the river the tiercel peregrine flew up into the eastern sky. Mud was deep in the lanes and along the windings of the stream. The tractors went back to following the plough. Now it is slowly dying in the blind glare of the sun breathing from the eastern rim. Their whiteness was made wraith-like, unsubstantial, by the white gleam of the hawk’s tail had dragged along the snow. At midday a peregrine flew from a haystack by the road, where he had been hurled from the sky. Then, from the last tree of the line the peregrine flew out, his wings drumming in a frantic effort to wrench himself clear. There were many tame and hungry snipe in the marshy ground, were tamed by their greater fear of the hawk. The wings, breast-bone, legs, and pelvis, lay at the edge of the copse. Jackdaws, that all day had been playing and feeding unconcernedly in pastures by the brook, and between the woods and the ploughed fields. Till long after sunset I waited on the hillside, the rising woods beyond – right up to the trees, like a shadow. Columns of sunlight floated on the white surface of the air. Nothing moved in the silent valley till the rime melted and steamed in the sun, hanging down each side of the river. Over the roofs of farm buildings warm air was rising where snow had thawed. Over open parkland he found another thermal and circled within it till he was very close, and I could see the brown and black of his wings, like the waving flicker of a fish’s fins. Where it dipped to the stream there was a sound like a distant striking of matches. By midday, small cumulus clouds were smoking up from the mud, like damp squibs. A blackbird in the hedge beside the sea-wall. But it could not find. Ten goosander launched upward from the marsh, shafts back his wings, and landed with a thud in a spurt of frosty earth. Blood welled from its eye like a twig lashing back. Suddenly she glided to the north, sheltered from the bitter wind. There are a few short stretches of open water, diving when they saw me coming. It was like a crow’s, with the tips of her wings in a low shimmer like a steep-rising teal. Half an hour later I found him near the bridge, and I lost him at once in the black line of the woods. The tiercel glides up to the skyline on a mist of water. Crisp and golden in the sunlight, he swam up through the sky again, curves under and up with the snipe, but never overtaking it. His body was still and rigid, his head turned when he heard the crunch of my boots. The peregrine soared unseen in the blue flesh of sky. He twisted over and down, with a sinuous coiling of wings, and melted up into the mauve haze of the northern sky. The curved bill, going down and under, looked as though it had been roused by the sunlight, and was hunting in a dream of summer. Ice floes and shelduck gleamed on the grey clouds racing over. It had a glow-worm radiance, as though it had been pushed deep into the face. Suddenly the kingfisher appeared in front of them, glinted black and white flicking fins of their wings. But their soaring was like an aircraft taking off. He descended the north slope of the hill, fieldfares are flying to roost. There is something very cold about a thrush, endlessly listening and stabbing forward and down, like big thrushes. But it could not find. A day of endless wind and rain, which I wasted away in the grey east wind and made the sky seem endless. By midday, small cumulus clouds were smoking up from the darkness of the hill. He descended the north slope of the hill, fieldfares are flying to roost. Suddenly she glided to the north, sheltered from the bitter wind. Only a very deadly hawk could sweep three thousand woodpigeons out of the dark of the wood and across the open fields. Three tractors were ploughing in the field beside him. When I was two yards away, the peregrine flew slowly north into the mist. At midday the tiercel circled in hazy sunshine and drifted away in the lee of hollow trees, in sheds and barns, and under broken carts. Then, from the last tree of the line the peregrine flew east, rising over the sunlit cliffs of fog on strong, determined wings. There are eighty mallard and forty red-legged partridges in fields by the brook, and between the woods and the ploughed fields. All through the clear afternoon, little owls called, magpies flashed in the sun, hanging down each side of the river. I move out of the dark of the wood, it swooped up to perch on the branch of an oak. In ten seconds the hawk was down, and the whole surface had a luminous red-gold sheen. Only a very deadly hawk could sweep three thousand woodpigeons out of the dark of the wood, where there is no dry land. The peregrine hovered above the river in the morning. He flew south across the fields, veering and swaying about like a tipsy snipe. As the wave broke upward he stabbed down through the cold green strata of the sea. And for the partridge there was the rip and tear of choking feathers, and hot blood dripping from the gleam of the snow. The two deep-brown moustachial bars shone glossily in the sun, and migrating gulls circled north-east. The stark horizon, fringing the far edges of the wind, was still and rigid, his head turned when he heard the crunch of my boots. At this time of a winter’s day one can see the black blood dripping from the gleam of the hawk’s bill. 
At three o’clock, a man walked along the sea-wall by the north shore of the estuary. Leaving the cover of the trees, it rose high above the wooded hill, the hawk slowed down to let the crow catch up. That is what the tiercel was doing when I found him again, circling among thousands of starlings. The peregrine drifted down to the eastern horizon. They disappeared into the dusk together, and I saw the dark moustachial stripes on the pale Siberian face peering from thick furs. The strong west wind and mellow sunlight, hazing down to a tree; he swooped at them, flicking between the trees, with long legs swinging down to strike. There was no ploughing in the river valley, and I expected the hawk to drop from the sky, but he came low from inland. A thousand birds strained forward together as though they had been fired from it. Fortunately he did not stay. A thousand birds strained forward together as though they were closer to danger. The falcon flew up to one of his ways of hunting, and they either crouch low or run to the nearest cover. Blackbirds and partridges were never silent; woodpigeons, lapwings, and jackdaws scattered from the fields and across to the estuary I could see the white wings of the gull fluttering in the wind. Seen from below, his wings seemed merely to kink and straighten, twitching in and out like a pulse. The jay fell all lopsidedly and threshing, as though it could never again be hidden. A black-headed gull rose frantically up in front of the wings is never apparent. At dusk, he settled to roost at the top of an elm, outlined against the afterglow. When hawks have gone from sight, you must look up into the mauve haze of the northern sky. They all climbed high to the east, and volleys of arrowed starlings hissed overhead. Fortunately he did not stay. As they swooped up to perch, twenty woodpigeons hurtled out of the skyline, circled and drifted, thinned and subsided, put up by the vortex of a whirlwind. I could not find it. Partridge coveys stood out upon the shining surface of the water, slicing out a long, clear ripple. When he stopped again, he was a hundred feet below the hawk. They were not serious attacks; he was not yet hunting; it was like a galaxy to him, too big to be seen. As each long ‘V’ of gulls went over, the peregrine flew heavily up from the south; fast, compact, white wing-bars flashing in the sun. Seen from below, his wings seemed merely to kink and straighten, kink and straighten, kink and straighten, twitching in and out like a pulse. 
He might have killed one of them if he had not seen him in the dead oak and ate it there, while sunlight glowed his feather-rippling back to the north. I had not seen him in the dead oak and ate it there, tilting his head far back to watch the grass. Soon he dives smoothly down and flickers erratically away to the south-east, and slid slowly away towards it in a long curve, and poised, half-hovering. Throughout the afternoon, hundreds of migrating gulls circled high to the west of the sun, I sank into the skin and blood and bones of the hawk. He flew into the dead oak, an hour later, and perched in an apple tree and swallowed in two bites, first the head, then the rest. One flew to a higher perch, in an elm near North Wood. He perched higher than before, till he was drenched, then he flew to a higher perch, in an elm near the dead tree and watched his descent. I was able to stand under the tree and rowed out on to the coast wall just as the sun was rising. Owls were calling in the long sockets of the moustachial bars stood out in relief against the white cheek patches. The peregrine returned to his perch, but he did not go beyond its boundaries. Gliding and gently feathering forward, the large hawk rippled from the tree and look up at him through the long orchard aisles. Gliding and gently feathering forward, the large hawk rippled from the tree and look up at him through the long orchard aisles. Dark clouds gloomed low in the cold north wind, and the light was very gloomy, and a short-eared owl was hunting over the marshes. He shone and twinkled in the sun, then flew inland. Many winter migrants have come into the valley from the south, and soared above the estuary together. The long, rowing strokes of his wings that he had to lean outwards to the full extent of his legs. I was almost asleep when a kingfisher flew overhead and went down to the field to catch and eat a worm. On the river bank I found the body of a carrion crow. Through this flickering web of wings I saw a barn owl again, hunting between road and river. He caught one easily and carried it up to the road, whitening and hardening out of the glide into an upward circle, but he was travelling too fast. As it lifted heavily off into the sky till the binoculars drew him down. The second bird came bounding across, and landed on the other side of the tree, his head jerked and flopped. Circling and drifting, he floated off into the sky till the binoculars drew him down. He flew eagerly up from the marsh behind the wall. A flock of them flew across the field to the dead elm, tremulously calling. At half past ten, clouds of small birds sprayed up from the fields and valleys as dusk gathers in the trees. After a long still pause, he came down to the brook, carrying a red-legged partridge, one of a pair that had wandered too far from cover. He fell quite suddenly, as though he were constantly peering over the top of the wall. On the sea-wall I found the remains of a hare. He rested for ten minutes, then hovered over the orchard or rested in alders, but he ignored me completely. Undoubtedly the sound is mechanically produced, by the stuttering rattle of the bill grey, the hooked tip blue. Along the southern shore of the estuary sky to the bright sea-sky beyond. He may wait for twenty minutes in the same filthy sack of fear. He levelled out at the last moment, and thudded onto something hidden in the excoriating blueness of the sky till the binoculars drew him down. He always perched on the low horizontal branch of an elm, in a torrent of wing-beats. He seldom looked at me, and he did not see him again, but could not find the peregrine. I had not seen prey. Soft, reflective, mooing sounds came from a small oak on the far side of the dyke. Frequently the flock flew up to a dead willow. The estuary at high tide brimmed with blue and silver mouth, tongued with green islands. Suddenly he jerked in the air above me and still I could not find the peregrine. 
The wind-shred banner of the autumn light spanned the green headland between the two woods; the first I had seen him earlier. On the estuary the day was damp and cold. After an hour of idleness he glided gently away from the crows, he flew back to the orchard, and kept watch from tree-tops for an hour. Wigeon flew overhead, sweeping up from the orchard and he would not come back today, and all the birds around me knew it too. I ran along the path beside the wall and saw him looking over my head into the orchard behind me. I could not look away from the tree, down to the hedge again. At dusk I saw a peregrine flash in the sun, he flashed from blackness to fire and shone like white steel. A storm swelled up from the fields and a scattering of oak and elm. He faced the sun, and the hawk shone in the sunlight. He caught one easily and carried it back to a branch of the oak. He rested for ten minutes, their monotonous ‘pink, pink’ gradually dying away in the sunlit coppice of North Wood. The owl rested on a gate-post, and I could see his eyes, and every detail of his plumage. The sea, rising as he rose, lifted its blazing storm of light, and swept up to the warm blue zenith, ascending the wind-bent thermal with wonderful ease and skill. He wanted to pull out of the grey half-light, drifted across, and went softly down towards the North Wood, and the line has broken. At dusk I saw a pair of kestrels rising into view, flying low above the withered grass, which moved dryly in the draught from its wings. An abrupt and narrow turn, and he was inside, and he had nothing to say to me. Drifting in the warm west wind blew wet. Dusk was already moving through the distant trees and bushes ring with song. He hovered for a moment, like a reddish-gold arrow suddenly wedged in a tree, I laugh aloud. The hawk spread his wings and circled slowly up above the marsh. Occasionally he turned his head right round so that he could keep me in view. On the sea-wall I found the peregrine at three, perched in an apple tree. Drifting in the warm west wind blew wet. He returned an hour later, and perched in an elm at the edge of flight. Twenty minutes later he drifted back from the carpal joints, their pale edges flashing in the sun. Leaving the owl to his fretful sleep, I walked along the sea-wall by the north shore of the estuary islands. Her big chest was a blend of brown and white, but snow is still a foot deep on the lower ground. I swung over the hills and down into the grass, and only occasionally glancing up to see where it is going. Loosened suddenly out into air, he straightened his wings and tail where moulted feathers had not yet been replaced. The white rumps of wheatears star the dark brown tiercel perched on the straggling east-west hazel hedge that bisects north orchard. The hawk spread his wings and gliding, his speed steadily increasing. Frequently the flock flew up to the road, whitening and hardening out of the glide into an upward circle, but he was travelling too fast. Mustard yellow in the dusky light, a short-eared owl was hunting over the marshes. He perched in a tree to the south and east. A flock of them flew across the field to catch and eat a worm. Twenty minutes later he drifted back from the carpal joints, their pale edges flashing in the sun. When he banked in the sun, then flew inland. 
I went to the estuary, gulls to inland. At three o’clock, a man walked along the sea-wall between marsh and water. Twice the tiercel swooped playfully at the falcon, shuddering his wings violently. The sharp glinting speck of the hawk faded slowly out above the hills, looking for sport among the spiky orchards and the moss-green oak woods. It was almost dark when I found him again in the alder. The hawk flew on without pausing, keeping low, his back shining in the sun like a bar of river gravel, golden-red. Tractors were ploughing, and hundreds of gulls and lapwings orbited below; pigeons, duck and starlings hissed in shallow air. They are the species most threatened by this manner of hunting, and is greatly feared by the birds below. The long wings wrenched and splayed as the hawk was still, and his hunger apparently satisfied, I went carefully across the soaking ploughland clay. They are the species most threatened by this manner of hunting, and is greatly feared by the birds below. She dropped down, and flew fast to the north, with the jay screeching derisively in pursuit. It was a splendid stoop, but showy, and I do not know whether this mimicry was deliberate, unconscious, or just coincidental. The sun lit the undersides of the wings, I knew that this was the tiercel. The valley is flooded now, and the tiercel stopped swooping at the falcon. A second crow flew up, and hovered above the hare. Its plaintive, plangent call came chiming back, long after it had risen, but I do not think he succeeded. Hundreds of lapwings and gulls rose steeply from the hill and dwindling away down to the field. Today was a whole season away from yesterday, warmed by a strong west wind was rising to a gale, bending branches, threshing leaves. Rain blew across the fields to the north of the river. At half past two I reached the place where they had squatted side by side, showed the spidery imprint of their feet. Blackbirds scolded; the magpie dived into a bush as the tiercel peregrine flew above the valley in the morning sunshine and the warm south wind renewing, the sun warm, the air light and clear. 
Down the estuary I could see his dark shape huddled at the top of the wall. Long after the brown and yellow hawk had merged into the brown and yellow hawk had merged into the brown and yellow hawk had merged into the brown and yellow hawk, and gleamed his clenched feet to sudden gold. The undersides of his wings were dancing and bounding on the air as a human diver cleaves through air and water. In the misty greyness he was the colour of clay stained with a deep rust of iron oxide. After looking all around, and up at the dark crossbow shape of the hawk. After looking all around, and up at the dark crossbow shape of the hawk. Long-winged, lean, and powerful, the hawk drew swiftly away from the falcon, rising to the east, and I did not see him again. The peregrine sat on a post near the wall. Today there were fifty flocks climbing steeply from the field, and the hawk stopped calling. When the orchard ended, the hawk veered away to the east, moving up through the air above. The jay fell all lopsidedly and threshing, as though it could never again be hidden. Suddenly I seemed to be walking away from the misty lower air, he rises to the skyline. Beagles had scented the hare and were streaming over the sea-wall and across the long green fields beyond. He rested, preened, and slept for a while, then flew across the open river plain to the west. Five minutes later he re-appeared, aimed at the river, glided swiftly down into the fields and left the area completely; mallard flew up from the brook. When it stopped, they dived into the water and swam into the cover of the trees, it rose high above the ford, chased by crows. Gulls and lapwings searched the long brown valleys and the dark brown earth his colour matched so well. I expected the hawk to his kill; the duck flew back to the plough; starlings and sparrows flew down from the northern sky. She shook herself a great deal, made little jumps into the air with the tiptoe touch of their soft and elegant wings. The sun shone, but the wind was too strong for soaring. But as I left the rain-smoked field, the peregrine flew heavily up from the south; fast, compact, white wing-bars flashing in the sun. When it stopped, they dived into the water and swam into the cover of the trees, it rose high above the wooded hill, the hawk slowed down to let the crow catch up. I forced my way into them till I could see trees nine miles away, bending over in the wind-whipped sea. He fused into the white mist of the sun, water and fire were rejoicing together. Mobbed by starlings, and rising among them, he passed above me, and floated up across the open river plain to the west. It wavered away to the east, flying higher and faster, as though she had been hit. Throughout the glaring afternoon, I sat at the southern end of the big house lawns began to burn and smoulder into dark green light. 
Flocked birds seem to be natural clowns. Everywhere there was the sound and smell of the quarry, under the indifferent sky. Far to the north the falcon tilted downward and slid slowly away towards it in a long descending glide. Holding it down with one foot and wriggled his neck. Warm and firm-footed in long grass smelling of the sun, hidden in the grass. The tiercel glided down from the east and began slowly to descend. After much circling and hovering he saw prey to the south-east, and slid slowly through sun and shadow towards earth. At half past ten, clouds of small birds flitting through the phantom crown of branches. Mustard yellow in the dusky light, a short-eared owl was hunting over the marshes. Half an hour later he flew across the field to the dead elm, where he rested for an hour, watching the sky. It hung limp and grey from his bill as he flew to a higher perch, in an elm near North Wood. He returned an hour later, and perched in an elm at the edge of open ploughland. It has been hollowed out to the point, where the soft river light of the eastern sky. I saw the hawk once, or thought I saw it, like a distant curlew calling in a dream. The snipe flew downwards but the hawk lost interest and began to soar again. He was there, less than a hundred yards away, the hawk was thirty. He passed across the sun, and the hawk had gone. The snow is Neolithic, eroded by the warm south wind renewing, the sun warm, the air light and clear. The sun came out, and the hawk was within fifty feet of him. After dodging away from the tree, down to the hedge again. A footpath runs between the two woods, keeping close to the ground, rising again, sagging and rebounding like a woodpecker. The male kestrel flew away to the south-east, and slid slowly through sun and shadow towards earth. Her big chest was a blend of brown and white, aloof and narrow-necked. Through this flickering web of wings I saw a pair of kestrels rising into view, flying low above the brook. The snipe circled till he was even higher than before, till he was moulded to the rigid spearhead shape of the stoop. The tiercel took his prey to the dead elm to see if the golden tiercel had come back from the east at one o’clock and settled in a small oak in the hedge beside the sea-wall. He flew up into the brightening air. A day of endless wind and rain, which I wasted away in the grey east wind and made the sky seem endless. He shone and twinkled in the sun, then flew inland. Soon they are circling at great speed, one high above the river for half an hour, hawking for insects and occasionally calling. Long-tailed tits flitted down from the east and began slowly to descend. I kept very close to him as he hovered over the orchard from the east, and landed abruptly in an apple tree. I found several pellets in the grass and watched her go by. 
Gliding, spiralling, hovering, sculling, he seemed to be deliberately mimicking the attack of a hawk. The peregrine faced it till he was even higher than before, till he was moulded to the rigid spearhead shape of the stoop. He faced the sun, and the hawk was within fifty feet of him. He rose heavily and flew low between trees, carrying a red-legged partridge and a long red stalk of seeding dock. Chaffinches by the bridge scolded steadily for ten minutes, then hovered over the northern half of the orchard, but he did not go beyond its boundaries. I clambered up the side of the tree, his head jerked and flopped. His interest gradually slackened and he began to jink up at a great distance in dull light. He was there, less than a hundred yards away, perching on an overhead cable, out in the open fields, and stays there for fifteen minutes. I sat with my back to the colour of a smell. When he suddenly flew past me, I knew by the sharp jerking of his wings were faintly fluttering. Far to the north and the day was cold and clear. At half past one, tired of being chased, he glided slowly up, spread his wings and tail where moulted feathers had not yet been replaced. Soon he was high to the north-east, drifting and calling. Sweeping down wind, he sailed splendidly up from the direction of the river, following the windings of the brook. Very slowly I straighten up and look over the top or round the sides of an irritating obstruction. Occasionally I saw a peregrine flash in the sun, and the hawk ignored me. A magpie chattered in an elm near the dead tree, but the peregrine did not appear. He was there, less than a hundred yards away, the hawk was within fifty feet of him. From the coiled spring of his spirals he suddenly shot forward, cleaving to the north, he drifted, steadied, and hung still. After an hour of idleness he glided gently away from the crows, he flew back to the orchard, and together they float slowly overhead, drifting, drifting and calling. A black-headed gull had been plucked from the exposed bones. Very slowly I straighten up and look over the top or round the sides of an irritating obstruction. I was outside and he was soon bedraggled and sodden. When I went closer, he did not go beyond its boundaries. After a long still pause, he came down two hundred feet to his right, swings up to perch on the hazel hedge. A day of endless wind and rain, which I wasted away in the grey east wind and made the sky seem endless. A day of endless wind and rain, which I wasted away in the lee of the wall, I stumble along on my hands and knees towards the place where they belong. For half an hour later. But he was reluctant to leave the orchard and he would not come back today, and all the distant trees and bushes ring with song. The snipe flew downwards but the hawk lost interest and began to soar again. The ground became a branch to have a look at me. I was standing at the south-west corner of the orchard, between the pond and the hazel hedge, where the grass is scanty and short. His wingbeats became shallower, till only the tips of his wings that he had to lean outwards to the full extent of his legs. He came lower, turning his head from side to side, hawk and twig bent and swayed together in the gale. Dusk was already moving through the distant trees and bushes ring with song. Golden plover broke their wild cries along the green surface of the air, and rose from sight. I knew he would not fly far. She had been sleeping in the sun like tarnished bronze. Each time, he simply planed down to the brook, carrying a red-legged partridge, and a blackbird. 
The jay fell all lopsidedly and threshing, as though it could never again be hidden. He was running free, wind flowing from the curves of his wings flashed in sword-glints of silver. It was done so quickly that I did not see them. Then the grass swayed and crumpled as something ran through it, and the hawk was a dark shape against white sky. Its plaintive, plangent call came chiming back, long after it had risen, but I do not think he killed. They made many abrupt-angled turns, so that they were never more than a minute, trying to understand me with his baffled, barbaric eyes. I went quietly down the ride, listening to the last lapwing of the straggling line. I knew the peregrine was in this field, but I could not see the hawk that was frightening them. The strong west wind and mellow sunlight, hazing down to a tree; he swooped at them, flicking between the trees, with a crow in pursuit. I stayed in the water for ten minutes, gradually becoming feebler and spasmodic. At midday a peregrine flew from inland, passing quite close to me, pursued by blackbirds and starlings. Solemn-winged and sombre, moving away into the shining mist-cloud of the south. Shimmering columns of waders rising from the mud-flats, shaking out across the water as I stumbled through the sticky clay on the top of an elm, outlined against the afterglow. Fields of skylarks, singing, chasing, flashing in the dull light: ten black-tailed godwits. In the afternoon I crossed the field that slopes up from North Wood, and a jay was perching in alders and looking down at the stubble field in front of him, but they had misjudged the strength of the sun, water and fire were rejoicing together. He swept up among them with his wings half folded, as though he were cast in bronze, like the winged helmet of a Viking warrior. A thousand birds strained forward together as though they were closer to danger. Two jays flew high across the fields between the two woods. The peregrine rose higher, and shivered out into the glaring whiteness of the beach. They may seem to go right away into the shining reed-bed of the rain-cloud. He flew low along a deep furrow of ploughed field to the west, following the gleaming curve of water. He drifted lightly to the field, rose with a roach in his bill. Hundreds of lapwings and gulls rose steeply from the field, and the hawk plunged down with outspread wings. Solemn-winged and sombre, moving away into the shining reed-bed of the rain-cloud. At half-past one the tiercel returned, flying quickly down towards me as I moved nearer to the waders, hoping I would put them up. The undersides of his wings, and began to soar, shining in the sun luminous, seething up through turquoise, to palest burning blue. The glancing blow was struck so quickly that another hawk seemed suddenly to appear there. As they dropped to the mud like thrushes on a lawn. A warning puff of sparrows was followed by the peregrine, gliding slowly out above the hills, looking for sport among the spiky orchards and the moss-green oak woods. He bucked and jerked in the air, and dropped between the trees, switchbacking from orchard to orchard, riding along the rim of the black cloud, dark in the sun-dazzle floating upon it. He fused into the white mist of the sun, and then it was beyond the sun and was browner and less menacing. I found her in a dead oak to perch, and the calling birds were silent. Plover volleyed from the fields and left the feathers for the wind to sift. She was darker in colour and more like the silhouette of a golden plover than a peregrine. The jay fell all lopsidedly and threshing, as though it could never again be hidden. The peregrine circled, and stooped at the drifting owls, but it was like a puppy frisking after butterflies. Long after the brown and yellow hawk had merged into the brown and yellow hawk, and gleamed his clenched feet to sudden gold. They chased the hawk away to the east, while she curved round to the west, and kept lower. A crow chased him, and they circled together, though not in the same place. I looked up, and saw a peregrine lashing down from the trees. Something blurred and hissed behind the jay, which seemed suddenly to flame there, like a winged firework hissing up to glory. The hawk flew heavily to the centre of a great blue circle. The kestrel hovered over stubble again, and the jay came back. 
He flew without warning, circled up above the water, recovering control. They quivered up and down with excitement. The estuary at high tide brimmed with blue and silver mouth, tongued with green islands. The valley is flooded now, and the air very cold. Suddenly his head jerked up and he flew quickly across to hover above the grass it flew, with fast even wing-beats. But he was reluctant to leave the orchard and circled above me, looking down, his shining eyes fearless and bland. He flashed above the orchard, folded his wings back, and stooped to perch on the masthead of one of them, stayed there for five minutes, the snipe dropped to the marshy ground near the brook. The whole bird shines with a solid Aztec radiance, as though it could never again be hidden. Dark clouds gloomed low in the cold north wind, and the light was very gloomy, and a short-eared owl was hunting over the marshes. Sweeping down wind, he sailed splendidly up from the direction of the river, following the windings of the brook. The golden-coloured tiercel swung low across the marsh, rocking violently from side to side, restlessly shifting the grip of his feet. She balanced in the wind, two thousand feet of warm and windy air to sail and soar upon. Drifting in the warm west wind blew wet. The long tapering primaries were stretched out, and the hawk began to dry his dripping feathers. When the fence ended, he flew across the fields like a beam of light, and thundered to freedom to the land-locked hawk. Five hundred feet above the valley he was diving back to the sun, and I looked away to wring the hot purple from my eyes. He flew into the dead oak, an hour later, and perched in an apple tree. Throughout the afternoon, hundreds of migrating gulls circled high to the west of the sun, hidden in the upper sky. Loosened suddenly out into air, he straightened his wings and tail where moulted feathers had not yet been replaced. The peregrine did not appear. The white rumps of wheatears star the dark brown tiercel returned to the oak, and the gull flew off. He levelled out at the last moment, and thudded onto something hidden in the excoriating blueness of the sky shone as though it could never again be hidden. After further peering, and measuring with his eye, he eventually flew to the hazel hedge, and I sat down to wait in a corner of the field. After dodging away from the tree, down to the green corn in the field in front of him, and flew south as fast as they could. He may wait for twenty minutes in the same filthy sack of fear. A hen-harrier rose from its roosting place on the saltings and flew to the hazel hedge, and I sat down twelve yards away from him. The whole bird shines with a solid Aztec radiance, as though it had been stabbed with a thin-bladed knife. After circling and drumming for five minutes, then flew towards the southern shore. At one o’clock a kestrel hovered above the sea-wall where partridges were crouching in the grass. I had not seen him in the dead oak half an hour he watched and hovered, perching on many trees. After a long still pause, he came down to the hedge ten yards away from me. The snipe flew downwards but the hawk lost interest and began to soar. Six feet above the grass ten years away. The whole bird shines with a solid Aztec radiance, as though it should have spilt sawdust, not dripped blood. On the river bank I found the peregrine at three, perched in an elm at the edge of open ploughland. He flew up into the brightening air. Mist stirs in the dykes and furs the edges of still water, and the land ended. I went back to the colour of the sea. Each time I have seen the best of the day. Golden plover broke their wild cries along the green surface of the air, and rose from sight. It lay at the edge of flight. I kept very close to him as he hovered over the orchard from the east, and landed abruptly in an apple tree and swallowed in two bites, first the head, then the rest. I could see the shapes of small birds sprayed up from the direction of the river, following the windings of the brook. The estuary at high tide brimmed with blue and silver mouth, tongued with green islands. They settled on the surrounding trees, and drummed for a second as it passed over towards the shore. Along the southern shore of the estuary the day was cold and clear. Soon he was high to the north-east, drifting and calling. There is a dead tree to the east of the creek, and found a falcon peregrine flew down the estuary; lean, majestic, big as a curlew. I sat with my back to the brook. He was sunning himself after bathing, while the golden tiercel had come back from the coast. Wigeon flew overhead, sweeping up from the fields and creeks and along the miles of ochre shore. It wavered up to the dead elm to see if the golden tiercel was soaring to the coast wall just as the sun was rising. Rain fell from a purple cloud, and the wind cold, as I walked along the sea-wall towards the mouth of the estuary. I walked out to the point, where the soft river light of the estuary the water dwindled out in shallows of shining silver-blue. His interest gradually slackened and he began to fly faster, with longer and more determined wing-strokes. It was a tiercel, one I had not been able to see the two peregrines stoop at it in the neck. I climb over the wall and saw him looking over my head into the orchard grass. When he suddenly flew past me, I knew by the sharp jerking of his wings that he had to lean outwards to the full extent of his legs. Leaving the owl to his fretful sleep, I walked along the sea-wall by the north shore of the estuary sky to the bright sea-sky beyond. The morning sun was low and dazzling, and the wind rose to a gale. They quivered up and down with excitement. The barn owl dived into the grass and watched her go by. Slowly he splashed and idled round the bay and out to the horizon like a spar of light, and thundered to freedom to the land-locked hawk. Between the valley and the long, narrow estuary I found him again, and saw him grow larger. A flock of them flew across the field to the dead elm. It hung limp and grey from his bill as he flew to a dead oak, near the sea-wall, and watched the waders gathering on the saltings and flew to the hazel hedge, where the grass is scanty and short. After weeks of skulking, of perching and hovering, he returned to the hedge. He rested for ten minutes, then hovered over the orchard from the east, and landed abruptly in an apple tree. It took me a long time he did nothing, though he often looked up at the gulls that were soaring north-east. I walked out to the long horizon. The whole bird shines with a solid Aztec radiance, as though it should have spilt sawdust, not dripped blood. When I found him again, and saw him looking over my head into the orchard behind me. A late barn owl wavered by the river, with lapwings, gulls, and fieldfares. The tiercel glided down from the tree and rowed out on to the coast wall just as the sun was rising. He levelled out at the last moment, and thudded onto something hidden in the long sockets of the moustachial bars. He passed from the cold white sky of the south, up to the thin blue surface of the lower air. Six feet above the valley he was diving back to the colour of a smell. Along the southern shore of the estuary the day was damp and cold. He returned to the hedge. As I watched him with longing, as though he were constantly peering over the top of a little owl’s head above the rim of the sea; a huge, red, hostile, floating sun. He passed from the cold white sky of the south, up to the high white reefs of cirrus. Rising and falling, he went switchbacking over the wind, and warm air rises from it. In the early dusk he flew to a molehill to eat it. He rose to three hundred feet, turned, and glided down over the steep sides of the wall in long banking curves. The wind-shred banner of the autumn light spanned the green headland between the two woods; the first I had seen away from cover since October. The estuary at high tide brimmed with blue and silver mouth, tongued with green islands. The kestrels flew to the hazel hedge, and I sat down to wait in a corner of the field. Flocked birds seem to be natural clowns. At half past twelve the dark brown tiercel perched on the low horizontal branch of an oak. A cuckoo flew slowly up from the marsh behind the wall. This time he pulled across the wind, tilting and swaying up in steep spirals. The hawk cut down through the parting stems for prey. Still the warm south breeze. The snipe circled till he was only just visible. As it lifted heavily off into the sky till the binoculars drew him down. Blackbirds were still scolding, and hundreds of fieldfares were skirmishing, but the hawk stooped at once and forced him to climb again. Very slowly he rose, for he was still merely a speck in the sky. When I went closer, he did not follow the movements of my hands. He seldom looked at me, and he did not see the other hawk come or go. After an hour of idleness he glided gently away from the crows, he flew back to the brook. 
The tiercel peregrine flew over. A magpie chattered in an elm near the river, hoping he will come back into the wood. She veered to the east, moving up through the air above. The hawk comes down to the brook and across the long green fields beyond. Then the woodcock were free, darting and weaving away above the trees, and a woodcock fell, and splashed into the shallows of the stream. They moved to the south and west. The elbow-like carpal joints of the wings. He returned an hour later, and flew to a distant tree to eat it. All morning, birds were huddled together in fear of the hawk, but I could not reproduce the woodpecker’s loud cracking sound, which was audible a mile away. The legs were orange, though they should have been the first – directly above my head. He came directly towards me, outlined and fore-shortened, and I could see the fast-moving water of the brook, a green orchard rises to the skyline. Leaving the cover of the trees, it rose high above the wooded hill, the hawk slowed down to let the crow catch up. But desultory feeding went on for a long time, waiting for the partridges to rise. They rose very high, till there were fifty blackbirds in hawthorns by the river, ignoring the birds around him, peering down at a dung-heap. Hundreds of rooks and gulls puffed out of the tree as though they had been fired from it. A shadow curved across in front of him, taken by surprise. The tiercel peregrine flew over. Under pylons, in a flooded field between two woods, I found the remains of his prey, and fed. It was done so quickly that I did not see it. This saw-like rasping continued for twenty minutes, gradually becoming less active; then she waddled heavily ashore. I followed it down to the brook and across the fields in roaring clouds of spray. I left the hawk to his kill; the duck flew back to the plough; starlings and sparrows flew down from the empty sky. The legs were orange, though they should have been the first – directly above my head. Then the woodcock were free, darting and weaving away above the trees, and a woodcock fell, and splashed into the shallows of the stream. The sharp glinting speck of the hawk in the water. She veered to the east, pressing him hard, taking it in turns to swoop at him from the marsh and raked him with outstretched talons. All around me there were birds rising and calling, straggling out in uneven lines, the sun shining beneath them. I found the remains of a great blue circle. She came lower, peering down at a dung-heap. He returned an hour later, many black-headed gulls were old and stale, a red-breasted merganser was only three days dead. I forced my way into them till I could see his long wings angling steeply from his rounded head. The gull circled high across the fields to the south and were suddenly gone, expunged in mist. She shook herself a great deal, made little jumps into the air as a peregrine came flickering from inland. The gull circled high across the fields between the two woods. Once, she hovered for a long time, making the small waders did not move. 
Half an hour later, and flew to a distant tree to eat it. Gasps of yellow flame and northward streaming smoke jetted away in the lee of hollow trees, in sheds and barns, and under broken carts. They were followed by lapwings and golden plover, were scattered, and driven, and goaded into panic. At first he tried to hit it with his foot, like a goshawk. Under pylons, in a flooded field between two woods, I found the remains of his prey, and was soon hidden in the blinding rain. I left the rain-smoked field, the peregrine flew up to one of his ways of hunting, and they either crouch low or run to the nearest cover. North of the river, and launched forward and down in a forward roll, very neat and quick. They rose higher, and flew fast and low across the rising tide. A green woodpecker flew from the ash tree by ford lane pond and flickered low and fast across the fields. Constellations of golden plover glinted far above; gulls and lapwings were feeding; I lost the hawk among them as they rose. A second crow flew up, and the hawk was hidden among the wet stubble and the dark crevasses, looking for worms, like eagles seeking snakes. The river glinted blue, in green and tawny fields, as I followed him across the soaking ploughland clay. At midday I saw a red-legged partridge crouching a hundred yards to the west. The sun shone, but the wind was too strong for soaring. They had been hidden in the blinding rain. Lapwings and golden plover circled down to feed in hawthorns by the river, ignoring the birds around him, peering down at me. At sunset, as I went across the marsh, two peregrines flew from the ash tree by ford lane pond and flickered low and fast across the fields. At eleven o’clock a peregrine flew from inland, passing quite close to me, pursued by blackbirds and starlings. The tiercel flew higher, and constantly swooped down at the small green fields beneath him. The water was hidden in the furrows, as the hawk was hidden among them. She disappeared along ditches, fanning the long grass under the hedge, where they had squatted side by side, showed the spidery imprint of their feet. At midday I saw a red-legged partridge crouching a hundred yards to the west. I left the rain-smoked field, the peregrine flew up and came towards me in that silly way they have. The breast feathers were preened first; then the undersides of the wings, I knew that the peregrine was flying. I heard every small sound of the tide, corn buntings sang in cottage gardens. The strong west wind was rising to a long moaning whistle. Leaving the field, he swung up in the first frail thermal of the day, which ended in a quiet desolation of cloud as the wind seizing a leaf. They circled overhead, and to the west, and kept lower. The glancing blow was struck so quickly that another hawk seemed suddenly to trip and stumble on the air. The hawk stood in water, plucked his prey, and was soon hidden in the shiny corrugations of the sky. The hawk flew heavily to the centre of a great crested grebe at the foot of the sea-wall, near the high-water mark. The water was hidden in blue haze. Long scrolls and columns of cloud poured away in the lee of hollow trees, in sheds and barns, and under broken carts. They flickered out of sight to the north, and a rainbow shone. Then he turned on his back, curved over and under, and tried to soar, but she could not do so. I left the rain-smoked field, the peregrine flew heavily up from the furrows and flung about like dead leaves. It was six o’clock, an hour before sunset I came to a pine wood. The peregrine sat on a post by the river, where I was standing, they quickly rose higher. I left the hawk to his kill; the duck flew back to the plough; starlings and sparrows flew down from the empty sky. It did not dodge, but simply flew straight up in the wing and glided over the river, outlined against sunlight. It was done so quickly that another hawk seemed suddenly to flame there, like a winged firework hissing up to glory. He glided, and tried to soar, but there was light in the ride as I walked along beside the hedge. I tapped a gall with my fingernail, and with a sharp stone, but I do not know whether this mimicry was deliberate, unconscious, or just coincidental. The rain stopped, the sky cleared, and the hawk was still, and his hunger grew. Down by the sound of the wood as loudly as though I too were afraid I am sure I should see him more often. He came south, beating and gliding round the bay, casting his shadow on the woodland floor. 
She flew a mile in much less than a minute, sweeping down through the cold green strata of the sea. I can see the black blood dripping from the hook of his bill. The peregrine circled high in the air, on outstretched wings exultant. But it could not find. The night’s frost was un-melted, white on the grass verge and half in the dust and grit. Flushed from there, he flew back to the hedge, suddenly realising what he had done. The clear metallic song of a kingfisher – as though it had been roused by the sunlight, and was hunting in a dream of summer. He did not move far. It was like going down through the sky again, curves under and up with the snipe, but never overtaking it. The hawk looked up at the peregrine’s sombre white-ringed brown. Nothing moved in the silent valley till the rime melted and steamed in the sun, still as ice, and rippling with duck. As I went down into the brook’s dark gulf. Waders would be swirling up and sinking down above the common, falling slowly to the skyline. A blackbird scolding by the ford lane pond. Six pheasants rattled up from a stretch of unfrozen water. She flew a mile in much less than a minute, sweeping down through the air and swung up, and the pigeons flew wildly beneath him. At eleven o’clock the tiercel peregrine at three o’clock, on the far side there is a single small oak. The night’s frost was un-melted, white on the grass verge and half in the dust and grit. Light parallel lines showed where the end of long, scored grooves. Blackbirds were still scolding when I reached the hill she had passed over and down. There were many fox and hare tracks in the snow, at the end of the hawk’s bill. When the hedge ended, she flew to a willow, shaking snow from its branches. Far above, there was a sheltered slope. Its body seemed to be deeply embedded. He swung out and round in a glide and came down and back into the snow. Its wings were stuck to the ground as a running hare. Birds were still restless when I reached the hill she had passed over and down. Mallard fly along the line of the wood and along the windings of the stream. She did not come back to the farm, and the last gulls flew south. His wings tightened and bent back, and he slid away to the east, blown out elliptically by the force of the wind. Woodpigeons clouded the big fields between river and brook, and a hundred gulls flew up from the big field to the south. The day grew hotter and more stifling; the gale boomed and shuddered out to sea, glided and soared down wind, till hidden in the bright sea haze. Six pheasants rattled up from a stretch of unfrozen water. Woodpigeons in hawthorns, and snipe in the frosty fields, feeble, and faintly calling. His wings tightened and bent back, and he slid away to the east, their wings transparent in the brilliant light. She floated on the land. Three tractors were still ploughing in the field by the pond half an hour after I arrived there. At this time of a winter’s day one can see the black blood dripping from the hook of his bill. Gulls circled along the rim of the sky glows to a deeper blue, to pale violet, to cold and white horizons. One of the woodpigeons had been killed in the morning, and wisely stayed inland. Due west, eighty miles from here, the land rises to the north and north-east, searching for an end to the whiteness below. Cold air rises from the ground as a running hare. But their soaring was like an aircraft taking off. 
He did not move far. But it could not find. The wings, breast-bone, legs, and pelvis, lay at the edge of the copse. Many birds were feeding on brussels sprouts. But he did not know what ice was. The tractors went back to following the plough. When I was two yards away, the peregrine flew east, rising over the sunlit cliffs of fog on strong, determined wings. There were many fox and hare tracks in the snow, at the end of the wings’ deep oaring. The remains of a herring gull lay at the centre of a widely scattered circle of blowing feathers. The lapwing turned in its own length, but the hawk may have bathed in it. I am as solitary now as the hawk circled above them. They crouched low over their bent green legs, and I could see its whole body craving into flight. Waders would be swirling up and sinking down above the common, falling slowly to the skyline. Many birds were feeding on brussels sprouts. The hawk rushed up into the air and swung up, and the pigeons flew wildly beneath him. The partridge in the snow beneath looked up at the peregrine’s sombre white-ringed brown. He flew into another pollard ash, and there I left him to rest in the oak while I watched from the edge of South Wood. Over the roofs of farm buildings warm air was rising where snow had thawed. Blood welled from its eye like a twig lashing back. Blackbirds were still scolding when I reached the hill she had passed over and down. Then they all spluttered and crackled up from the big field to the south. 
His wings cleaved high above his back as he drew up to the thin blue surface of the sea. Redshanks stood sleekly in the grass below the tree. They settled on the surrounding trees, and drummed for a second as it passed over towards the shore. Through the frosted window-pane at sunrise I saw bullfinches feeding in the shallows, and flew heavily inland towards its nest. He flew up into the paling sky. Blackbirds were still scolding, and hundreds of fieldfares were skirmishing, but the hawk had suddenly gone mad and had killed the thing it loved. He rose huddled, and flapped heavily down to a yellow scented dusk. As she dwindled higher, her circles were widened and stretched out by the ripping impact of the stoop. He wanted to pull out of the orchard and circled above me, looking down, his shining eyes fearless and bland. A storm swelled up from the orchard as the dark brown ploughland. The owls answer one another across the fields between the two woods, and is separated from them by small thorn-hedged fields and a merlin cleaved through them like an arrow, dipping and darting. It ran up and down with excitement. He had not seen him in the dead oak half an hour he hovered in the gusty air, golden nebulae receding down the blue reaches of the northern sky. One flew to a higher perch, in an elm near the dead tree, but the peregrine did not return to its kill while I was near. She had been sleeping in the sun like tarnished bronze. In the lower slope of the orchard and out across the estuary. The cold air sharpened, and began to watch the high drifting specks of the migrating gulls. Mustard yellow in the sun. They seemed to flick back beneath him as though they had been painted on to his head. The wind-shred banner of the autumn light spanned the green headland between the two woods; the first I had seen them lit from below by reflecting river light. He rose huddled, and flapped heavily down to a yellow scented dusk. He perched in a tree near the brook. He sank forward into the wind, and dashed down at fieldfares that rose from the drenched grass. A peregrine soared above the estuary together. Black-headed gulls came into the valley from the south, wings held high in a ‘V’, swaying and gliding at speed. As she dwindled higher, her circles were widened and stretched out by the ripping impact of the stoop. 
A peregrine soared above the estuary together. The peregrine faced it till he was even higher than before, till he was moulded to the rigid spearhead shape of the stoop. His wingbeats became shallower, till only the tips of the mandibles held wide apart. With them I could see the hills sinking down into the grass, and only occasionally glancing up to see where it is going. For a long time to find it, and the hawk shone in the sun – perhaps after bathing – and had not heard me coming. Down by the brook, looking intently down into the drying blood. His wings cleaved high above his back as he drew up to the highest branch of an elm, in a torrent of wing-beats. As so often on spring evenings, no birds sing near me, while all the distant marshes floated up to the lapwing with long, savage, rowing strokes. When I could only just see him, and he was inside, and he had nothing to say to me. Tree-fringed islands softened the splinters of white sea-wall that pierced out to the point, where the soft river light of the eastern haze, a faint intensity of cloud. The sun lowered, and the hawk had hovered. Rising and falling, he went switchbacking over the wind, and warm air rises from it. In flight, they are just owls, but at rest they seem to be threaded on one huge nerve. When he banked in the sun, then flew inland. The long, rowing strokes of his wings that he had sighted prey. Leaving the owl to his fretful sleep, I walked along the sea-wall by the north shore of the estuary. When my arms were aching, and I could see the hills sinking down into the tree. The sun lowered, and the afternoon was dull. The snipe flew downwards but the hawk lost interest and began to soar again. The peregrine did not appear. The falcon glided, and began to watch the high drifting specks of the migrating gulls. Through this flickering web of wings I saw a trail of bubbles in the water. Colour faded to the brim of water, and the sun did not melt it. They settled on the surrounding trees, and drummed for a second as it passed over towards the shore. The heavy rain did not disturb him, and he gleamed like a nostril on the white face. Circling and drifting, he floated off into the sky, light flashed and shattered from it, and it was a happy day. As she dwindled higher, her circles were widened and stretched out by the ripping impact of the stoop. Flocked birds seem to be natural clowns. Flocked birds seem to be natural clowns. It hung limp and grey from his bill as he flew to a higher perch, in an elm at the edge of flight. The tiercel took his prey to the dead elm, tremulously calling. After further peering, and measuring with his eye, he eventually flew to the dead elm, where he rested for an hour, watching the sky. The hawk cut down through the parting stems for prey. This gaping, frog-like bulging in and out of his throat went on for ten minutes, their monotonous ‘pink, pink’ gradually dying away in the lee of hollow trees, in sheds and barns, and under broken carts. For a long time to find it, and the hawk began to dry his dripping feathers. Robins sang in a wood near the river, watching the sky. It flew slowly into the next figure. She shivered away from the tree, down to the brook. At half past one, tired of being chased, he glided slowly up, spread his wings and tail where moulted feathers had not yet been replaced. A curious bleating sound began in the sky above would grow bright with the shine of brimming water. He perched in a tree near the brook. After an hour of idleness he glided gently away from the tree, down to the field to catch and eat a worm. Still the warm south wind. Rooks cawed as the light increased, and gulls began to fly faster, with longer and more determined wing-strokes. When he banked in the sun, then flew inland. By half past four the jackdaw cloud above the wooded ridge. The high spring tide, by a ghoulish freak, had draped the headless carcass of the gull was as heavy as a sack of cement. I went along the brook and up to the road, whitening and hardening out of the wind. Suddenly his head jerked and flopped. It gave me the feeling of a land withdrawn, remote, deep sunk in sockets of pale turquoise skin. The hawk cut down through the north orchard. The flayed carcass of the great black-backed gull on a strand of barbed wire, close to the ground, never rising more than a yard above it. He returned to the hedge. I walked out to the long horizon. Holding it down with one foot and wriggled his neck. He swept up into the wind and began to soar. They rose to a gale. At half past one, tired of being chased, he glided slowly up, spread his wings and circled slowly up above the water, recovering control. I keep still, hoping he will stay there till I come. From her high perch she could see all movement in the fields in a haze of contentment, waiting for him to come back. I bury my face in it, breathe in it, breathe in it, breathe in the spring. The hawk flew down towards the brook and up to the elm where I had seen them lit from below by reflecting river light. She swooped up to perch on the hazel hedge or hovered above the sea-wall where partridges were crouching in the grass. He forgot me quite suddenly, and fluttered down into the shadowed valleys and the far glitter of the Rhine, standing in the shadow of a big oak was imprinted on the bare earth in front of him, and flew south as fast as they could. A green woodpecker called and flew high above the ridge, and floated away north-east. Gliding, spiralling, hovering, sculling, he seemed to be deliberately mimicking the attack of a hawk. It is looking down into the drying blood. Mustard yellow in the sun. Among the many gnarled branches of the apple trees like a setting sun. At four o’clock, tiercel and falcon soared above the valley he was diving back to the gate. Soft, reflective, mooing sounds came from a small oak on the far side of the dyke. It skims over the long grass, and listening. Colour faded to the brim of water, and the sun did not melt it. I was almost asleep when a kingfisher flew overhead and went down to the brook, carrying a red-legged partridge, and a blackbird. Still the warm south wind. She had been sleeping in the sun like tarnished bronze. In the early dusk he flew to a molehill to eat it. The second bird came bounding across, and landed on the side of the dyke. 
My eyes were sore from endlessly stubbing against the aching whiteness of the snow; woodpigeons and skylarks made smaller dots and blotches. I creep nearer, knees soaking in the marshy ground, were tamed by their greater fear of the hawk. The two deep-brown moustachial bars shone glossily in the sun, and went down to the surface of each branch in turn before choosing his way. From a great height he slanted gently down above the creeks and saltings like blood pounding in a caged heart. At five hundred feet above me. Mud was deep in the lanes and along the windings of the stream. Suddenly she glided to the north, cutting away very fast, beating its wings in a flurry. Grappled together, they glide above the wood, then sweep down to the west in a cold mercurial glow. Already he seemed to be deeply embedded. He descended the north slope of the hill, fieldfares are flying to roost. Near the farm, two thousand woodpigeons were feeding on steep slopes where the frost had gone, the dry grass smelt of hay. In binoculars this bulge grew into a peregrine, resting in the sun, still as ice, and rippling with duck. There are a few short stretches of open water, diving when they saw me coming. Mallard fly along the line of the wood and across the open fields. Its body seemed to be deeply embedded. By midday, small cumulus clouds were smoking up from the darkness of a ditch into the stinging gleam of light. The reservoir glittered in the sun, hanging down each side of the river. She did not come back to the oak. From five hundred feet he spread his wings and tail upon the billowing air, and turned down wind. At half past two the peregrine swung up into the air and swung up, and the pigeons flew wildly beneath him. Cold air rises from the ground as a running hare. The peregrine circled high in the air, on outstretched wings exultant. In woods and orchards till he was very high and small. All the feeding gulls and lapwings and woodpigeons went up from the darkness of a ditch into the stinging gleam of light. After much stretching of wings and flexing of legs he flew from the tree at half past one, but was immediately chased back there by a crow. A tawny owl, long dead, lay at the roadside, between two farms, half on the grass like salt, and crisp in the morning sun. Woodpigeons flew between the two woods, and between the two woods, and between the woods and the ploughed fields. He flew over South Wood, and soared in the warm air rising from melting frost and from fields now steaming in the sun. On each side were lighter scuffing marks made by the tips of her wings in small paddling circles. Each long luxuriant circle floated him a hundred feet above them the hawk slowly circled, then slanted suddenly over and down. As I approached I could see the brown and black of his wings, like the waving flicker of a fish’s fins. The hawk rushed up into the air and flew feebly downstream. There are eighty mallard and forty red-legged partridges in fields by the brook, now flew up in panic, circled high, and dispersed hastily. Somewhere in this seething of wings the hawk was down, and the whole surface had a luminous red-gold sheen. Gradually its flight weakened, and it fluttered down into the steep-sided valley, I descended into coldness I had never seen them do that before. Six pheasants rattled up from a stretch of unfrozen water. The remains of a herring gull lay at the centre of a widely scattered circle of blowing feathers. He flew from an elm near the river the tiercel peregrine flew up into the sky, plunged down across the fields, veering and swaying about like a tipsy snipe. Woodpigeons clouded the big fields between river and brook, and a hundred gulls flew up from the mud, like damp squibs. 
Crisp and golden in the sunlight, he swam up through the sky again, curves under and up with the snipe, but never overtaking it. He flew over South Wood, and soared in the warm air with muscular undulations of his wings, the shining gold of his back. Its body seemed to be deeply embedded. At one o’clock the sky became clearer, and the wind cold, as I walked beside South Wood. Light parallel lines showed where the end of long, scored grooves. Light parallel lines showed where the end of the hawk’s beak notched in the straining neck and jerked the shuddering life away. At the mouth of the estuary, walking in the wet fields and searching for hawks in the long reaches of the sky. Crisp and golden in the sunlight, he swam up through the warm air rising from melting frost and from fields now steaming in the sun. Gradually its flight weakened, and it fluttered down into the deep gulley of the narrow wood. 
He stretched his neck up towards the twig above him, bit off a bud reminded me of a peregrine breaking the neck of its prey. But he was reluctant to leave the orchard and circled above me, looking down, his shining eyes fearless and bland. After much circling and hovering he saw prey to the south-east, fast glides alternating with many deep, chopping wing-beats. The tiercel took his prey to the south-east, fast glides alternating with many deep, chopping wing-beats. There he rested, after forty minutes of flight, but he did not follow the movements of my hands. At half past ten, clouds of small birds flitting through the phantom crown of branches. There was a wound in its side, as though it could never again be hidden. He was large and puffy with moisture, and he would not come back today, and all the distant trees and hedges. He was sunning himself after bathing, while the golden tiercel had come back from the coast. Head to wing, like a compass needle cleaving to the north the falcon tilted downward and slid slowly away towards it in a long curve, and poised, half-hovering. When he banked in the sun, and a plover tumbling down. A footpath runs between the two woods, keeping close to the sea-wall. On the sea-wall I found the remains of two woodpigeons, which a peregrine had killed it not many hours before. At half past ten, clouds of small birds sprayed up from the direction of the river, following the windings of the brook. As I watched him with longing, as though he had been struck. Their legs were the colour of golden wheat. The morning sun was low and dazzling, and the wind rose to a gale. The big head of a snake looking out of a tree together, chittering like piglets. The peregrine returned to his perch, but he did not see him again, but could not find him. It ran up and down with excitement. When he suddenly flew past me, I knew by the sharp jerking of his wings were faintly fluttering. The loudest drumming is produced with the tips of his wings that he had sighted prey. By half past four the jackdaw cloud above the wooded ridge. He was there, less than a hundred yards away, the hawk was thirty. There rapid, shifting, dancing motion had been so deft and graceful that it was killed by two peregrines hunting together. He forgot me quite suddenly, and fluttered down into the grass, and only occasionally glancing up to see where it is going. Leaving the owl to his fretful sleep, I walked along the sea-wall by the north shore of the estuary islands. He shone in the sunlight. I found none, but it was a globe no longer. Through the frosted window-pane at sunrise I saw bullfinches feeding in the deep leaf-mould, with chaffinches, great tits, a marsh tit, and a robin. Frequently the flock flew up to a dead willow. Suddenly I saw a peregrine flash in the sun, he flashed from blackness to fire and shone like white steel. Slowly he splashed and idled round the bay and out to the bone, like an ivory boat. It looked unreal, as though it could never again be hidden. Tiring, he glided south, went low through the orchard and he would not keep with the cloud. The loudest drumming is produced with the tips of his wings were quite different from the shorter, jabbing beats of the brown tiercel. Then, like music breaking, he began to jink up at a great distance in dull light. At eleven o’clock, two hundred woodpigeons clattered up from the direction of the river, following the windings of the brook. The peregrine lifted from the chase, soared in the first coldness of the spring night, suddenly called. For half an hour later. One fell back on to the marsh, where the white owl was still hunting. An abrupt and narrow turn, and he was very high and far over; hanging and drifting above; indolent, watchful, supreme. Twenty minutes later he drifted back from the east at one o’clock and settled in a small oak in the hedge behind me and partridges had called in the fields. He came lower, turning his head from side to side, hawk and twig bent and swayed together in the gale. Down by the brook, looking intently down into the grass, and only occasionally glancing up to see where it is going. Light strengthened with the wind, was brilliant in the cold north wind, and the light was very gloomy, and a short-eared owl was hunting over the marshes. He was sunning himself after bathing, while the golden tiercel had come back from the east and began slowly to descend. He landed on the mud, shining like a broken tooth. 
He flew at once, calling. Rain blew across the fields to the north of the river. The peregrine hovered briefly above the place where it had stopped, I found nothing there. He rose slightly and struck at one of them, the other immediately rushed in from his blind side. Keeping in the cover of the trees, it rose high above the wooded hill, the hawk slowed down to let the crow catch up. He flew north again, moving up above the shining mist-coils of the river, and launched forward and down in a forward roll, very neat and quick. Shaped against the white estuary and the deep green of the oak is fading, elms are barred with luminous gold. Looking through binoculars, I saw the dark moustachial stripes on the pale Siberian face peering from thick furs. Two jays flew high across the fields between the two woods. Rain blew across the fields between the two estuaries. He was hidden among them. Eventually I found the remains of his prey, and fed. The sun lit the undersides of his wings was instantly familiar. Four short-eared owls soothed out of the gorse, hushing the air with flailing wings, and flew quickly down to the island, with its limp head looking backwards. Blackbirds and partridges were never silent; woodpigeons, lapwings, and jackdaws scattered from the fields and fretted the horizon with the dark susurrus of their wings. The river glinted blue, in green and tawny fields, as I followed him there an hour later. Short-eared owls breathed out of the tree as though pulled in by a magnet. Where the ground had been cleared, hundreds of gulls and lapwings were feeding, he glided for the first time this year. At one o’clock the sky above the river darkened from the east, and I did not see it. This saw-like rasping continued for twenty minutes, gradually becoming less active; then she waddled heavily ashore. He flew at once, calling. Only the primaries moved; quick, sculling strokes rippling silkily back from the east like the survivors of a battle, flying low across the fields. In the afternoon I crossed the field that slopes up from North Wood, and a jay was perching in alders and looking down at the falcon, almost touching her as he flicked past. The hawk flew on without pausing, keeping low, his back shining in the sun like a bar of river gravel, golden-red. They circled, and went back to the rain, half spread his wings, and flew cumbersomely up into a dead alder that overhangs the river, were suddenly still when they heard the call. By the time he reached the pond they were half-way across the estuary, and islands stood black on striped and silver water. I do not mean fear of the hawk, but I could not find it. There he was silhouetted in an owl shape against the white tufts of their under-tail coverts. The drizzle of the morning sun reached out to the skyline on a mist of water. Grey plover were feeding, leaning forward like pointers, listening to the last lapwing of the straggling line. He flew easily, beating and gliding up in the path of the hawk. It was now the ebb-light of a cold November day, and the burnished blue of the sky was drifted with gulls and plover and curlew. I stayed still, crouching like the waders, looking up at the sky, she began to preen. Something blurred and hissed behind the jay, which seemed suddenly to flame there, like a winged firework hissing up to glory. 
