Woodpigeons clouded the big fields between river and brook, and a hundred mallard lifted through wheeling lapwings and gulls. Somewhere in the hissing, weaving smoke or wings curlew were calling and fading. The tiercel peregrine soared eastward in a calm, clear sky. Fog drifted slowly down from the sun.
Trees by the brook were grey with a lichen of woodpigeons. None flew for an hour; some stayed for much longer. All the trees to north and south were thick with them, they lined the hedges, they clustered heavily in the orchards on the hillside, the rising woods beyond – right up to the skyline ridge – were grey and distorted with them. Only a very deadly hawk could sweep three thousand woodpigeons out of the fields simply by soaring above them, and could keep them there for an hour, too fearful to fly.
I waited at the bridge. Birds were silent, and there was no wind. The sun shone in mist, like a burning moon. I hid in my own stillness. After one o’clock the sky became clearer, and the wind rose from the north. Lapwings skimmed over the top of South Wood and flew low across the fields. It was time to go on. I went up the hill, scanning the trees for a hawk. Wide pastures slope down to the upper part of South Wood, and on the far side there is a single small oak. A branch near the top had a slightly unnatural bulge. In binoculars this bulge grew into a peregrine, resting in the rounded, disarming, huddled-up shape of an owl. The mist had gone. The wind was blowing forward the first small fleeces of cloud. The hawk looked up at the sky and the cold, clear afternoon light. At this time of a winter’s day one can see the light turn and begin to flake and burn down to the west in a cold mercurial glow. There is suddenly a feeling of ‘too late’, which I am sure the hawk shares. After much stretching of wings and flexing of legs he flew from the tree at a quarter to two, wings lashing high, head reaching eagerly forward.
Above farm building he found warm air, and began to rise. For twenty minutes I watched him hunting over the narrow wooded valleys and the hill beyond. He moved in a complex pattern of small intersecting circles, like chain-link fencing, threading alternately left and right. For one-third of each circle his wings beat sharply and deeply, with a definite bouncing rhythm. Then they flicked smartly down to a rigid line, and he glided round with stiff wings slowly rising. At the close of the circle they were high above his back and ready to begin beating again. Gliding was faster than beating. The whole turn of the circle was beautifully smooth.
At eight hundred feet his climbing ceased. The same even movements continued, as he carefully quartered the valley. Jackdaws and pigeons flew up, but there was no real panic. Blackbirds in the orchard behind me scolded for half an hour. South of the wood, where there is sloping ground out of the wind and flat to the sun’s low angle, the hawk suddenly rose higher, lengthened his glides, and swept round in wider circles. He drifted southward, a thousand feet up, gliding slowly down wind. Over open parkland he found another thermal and circled within it till he was very high and small. From a great height he slanted gently down above the common, falling slowly to the skyline. Then he rose once more in a steep, flickering helix, hypnotic in style and rhythm, his long wings tireless and unfaltering. He shimmered and coiled and dwindled away over the sharp-spired hill, and was descending beyond it when distance suddenly quenched him. He left the blue sky baroque with fading curves of power and precision, of lithe and muscular flight.
