Bright frosty day, fading from brightness slowly, hour by hour. Jack snipe waver up from the still edges of a pond tall with tufted reeds and rimmed with dark ice. They call faintly, dodge feebly, rise with a hesitant stutter of wing-beats, drop carelessly to cover as though too weak to fly farther. I cannot flush them again. Snipe flare up and are gone. Jack snipe burn slowly, flicker, then slowly fade.
A green sandpiper towers from the brook, fluttering low overhead: stiff-winged, jerky, erratic as a dragonfly, white breast shining between black wings. Thrush-size, narrow and frail-looking, it spurts away like a jumping cracker. It always flies in this jagged way. The darting and dodging is not due to fear; it is just its natural style.
North Wood is quiet. I watch a treecreeper feeding. His bent bill is as cruel-looking as a hawk’s, a thin talon, a dangerous thorn. He climbs on the surface of a tree, then slants down to the bottom of another, transecting the wood from east to west, never missing a tree, never scanning the same tree twice. Only when you follow him for a long time can you realise how systematic he is. He may pass several trees by, but he will always go back to them. He straddles on to the bark, big spidery feet placed wide apart, and moves upward in frog-like jerks, picking and carving out insects from crevices lit by his shining egg-white breast. His bill is designed for delicate probing, but he can also dig and hammer with it, and can catch insects with it as he flies. He hunts by eye and ear, peering closely at the bark, or listening to it with his head inclined. As he climbs he may press his tail against the tree for support, but this is not done invariably; often there is a gap of an inch or two between tail and tree. He can walk sideways, or head-downwards, like a nuthatch. Where a tree branches out, he hesitates, squinting along the surface of each branch in turn before choosing his way. His high thin call comes piercingly from wide-open bill. His underparts are white, tinged here and there with green, like a freshly peeled onion. The markings on his folded wings look like faded moths. Like the bark of a tree, they are a blend of grey and brown and fawn, striated to the light and shade of wood’s ridge and fissure. He silvers in sunlight, like a glistening water shrew. Like a shrew, he hides in stillness when a kestrel passes over.
Light moves out to the fringes of the wood and across the evening fields. A tawny owl calls from the wood’s dark hornbeam heart. He gives a vibrant groan; a long sensitive pause is held till almost unbearable; then he looses the strung bubbles of his tremulous hollow song. It echoes down to the brook, breaking the frozen surface of the air. I look out at the west’s complexity of light. A heron, black against the yellow sky, kinked neck and dagger bill incised, sweeps silently down into the brook’s dark gulf. The sky infuses with the afterglow.
Softly through the dusk the peregrine glides, hushing it aside with silent wings. He searches the constellations of small eyes, sees the woodcock’s planetary eye look upward from the marsh, shafts back his wings, and plunges to the light. The woodcock rises, twists under the blade of the hawk, and wavers away. He is overtaken, cut down. He drops with a squelching thud. The hawk lands on the softening bird, grips its neck in his bill. I hear the bone snap, like barbed wire cut by pliers. He nudges the dead bird over. Its wings wave, then it lies on its back. I hear the tearing of feathers, the tug of flesh, the crack and snap of gristle. I can see the black blood dripping from the gleam of the hawk’s bill. I move out of the dark of the wood into the paler shadows of trees. The hawk hears, looks up. His white-ringed eyes are huge with dusk. I creep nearer, knees soaking in the marshy ground. Thin ice crunches. Frost is forming where the late sun shone. The hawk pulls at his prey, looks up. Four yards separate us, but it is too far, a distance as unspannable as a thousand foot crevasse. I drag like a wounded bird, floundering, sprawled. He watches me, moving his head, looking with each eye in turn. An otter whistles. Something splashes in the cold, piky depth of the brook. The hawk is poised now on the narrow edge between curiosity and fear. What is he thinking? Is he thinking at all? This is new to him. He does not know how I got here. Slowly I mask the pallor of my face. He is not afraid. He is watching the white glitter of my eyes. He cannot understand their staccato flicker. If I could stop them moving he would stay. But I cannot stop them. There is a breath of wings. He has flown into the trees. The owl calls. I stand above the kill. Red ice reflects the stars.
