Snow lay thick in South Wood, making the trees look black and hard, muffling the small sounds of the birds. Twigs rattled in the wind, fretting across mysteries of light. The call of a sparrowhawk shrilled out its alarm. It was a high nasal chatter, a fast cat-thin skirling, like a speeded-up recording of the song of a nightjar, rising and falling, slowly slurring and fading, ebbing and whimpering away to silence.
The sparrowhawk came softly from the trees, flicking aside faint dusts of snow. He swept into the open ride. Where it dipped to the stream there was a sheltered slope. The sun had melted the snow there, and many birds were feeding among dead leaves. As all the birds rose, the tiercel peregrine dived from a high tree. He hit nothing. The sparrowhawk flew on, apparently not recognising his danger. The peregrine turned and rushed at him. The hawk tore at the air with his wings, forced himself away into the cover of the trees. The peregrine followed him. The stillness of the hornbeams suddenly pulsed with a fierce panting of wings. The peregrine kept to the wider spaces between the tree-tops, the hawk weaved through thicker, lower growth. The peregrine was faster, the hawk more agile. When the hawk perched, the peregrine did the same. They glared at each other in the snow-lit gloom, the orange-ringed eyes of the sparrowhawk looking up at the peregrine’s sombre white-ringed brown. The hawk’s eyes glowed like points of distant fire. Rapt in their curious conflict they did not notice me at all.
For ten minutes the even chase endured, in endless rushing circuits through thorn and ash and hornbeam. The peregrine would not risk a stoop in such a narrow space, the sparrowhawk was safe if he kept in cover. But he did not know he was safe. He could not feel safe while the peregrine was still above him. Suddenly he dashed out of the wood and across the open fields. The peregrine flew down at him from tree-top height, caught him before he had gone a hundred yards, carried him down to the surface of the snow.
I saw him afterwards. He had been an adult male. His grey wings lay like flakes of beech bark beside the peeled willow of his shining yellow bones and the sunset feathers of his tigered breast.
