Today I walked for ten miles beside the river. Horizons were misty, the sun cold with blue sky above, the north wind light. I trudged through dazzling foot-deep snow. Herring gulls in snow were calm as camels in the desert. They flew languidly up, moving reluctantly, slowly, like cattle making way. Their whiteness was made wraith-like, unsubstantial, by the white gleam of the snow. All the gulls were near towns; there was none in open country. Fifteen moorhens crowded into a ditch. Fieldfares flew to a willow, shaking snow from its branches. They were thin and drawn-looking, and their loud calls seemed too big for their shrunken frames. A pied wagtail danced on ice, tripping and slithering. Jackdaws and rooks fed near the farms, and were very tame. Little grebes swam in stretches of open water, diving when they saw me coming. They were like small brown coracles, fat-bottomed, and kettle-shaped.
Six hares crouched together under hawthorns in the middle of a field. Three ran left, three right. Gunfire broke like bars of ice snapping. A peregrine flew over, hurtling away very fast, beating its wings in a low shimmer like a steep-rising teal. Willows were lined with woodpigeons, a frozen smoke of purple and grey. Six pheasants rattled up from a scrub-covered island. Two men were cutting and burning brambles, hacking fiercely with billhooks, smoke and breath twining away through the freezing blue air. A large snipe flew slowly across the river, and pitched into a hedge. Its white outer tail feathers spread and shone as it landed. It was probably a great snipe.
Skylarks, meadow pipits, reed buntings, and chaffinches, perched in riverside trees, feeble and dying. A wren crept over the sloping roof of a wooden church tower, sneaking up like a treecreeper, and went inside through a belfry slat. A moorhen plunged down through hawthorns, feet first, in a fizz and spray of powdery snow. Tangles of thistles pierced the even surface of the snow. Three goldfinches were feeding on thistle seeds, contorting their necks, dibbing out each separate seed with their bills.
They fluttered and hovered over the thistle-heads, like flycatchers. Their calls chipped at the frosty air.
The law, afternoon sun shone upward to the southward flying gulls. They seemed to be almost transparent, ethereal with the glowing and holy illumination that hollowed out their slender bones and threaded their airy marrow.
Two dead herons lay in the snow together, like a pair of gaunt grey crutches; eyeless and tattered corpses, torn and shredded by many shapes of tooth and beak and claw. Otter tracks led to fish-blood and the bones of pike. A moorhen was dragged back and down under water by a pike that had lanced up at it through a hole in the ice; it tilted over and up and sank like a torpedoed ship.
I stood by a wooden barn, weighing a frozen and shrivelled white owl in my hand. I had lifted it down from a rafter as though it had been a flower-pot. It was cold and dry and brittle, stale and long-dead. Something hit the roof of the barn, slithered down, and fell at my feet. It was a woodpigeon. Blood welled from its eye like a red tear, and spread over its face in a horrifying lop-sided circle. The other eye stared out, impelling the bird round in the snow. It clutched with its wings, half of its brain already dead. When I lifted it up, it still kept turning, turning, like a toy train that is meaningless away from its rails. I killed it, threw it down in the snow, and walked on. The chattering, circling peregrine descended to its prey.
The long, waning whiteness of the afternoon stained towards sunset. The sun was like a withered apple, shrivelling, dying. Dusk shaded the sliding hill lanes under spruces alpine with snow. Fieldfares and redwings, a few tired birds, went down into the dark valley, perhaps for the last time. A tawny owl’s song, tremulously baying, rang out from holly and pine. Night. A fox calling, blazing up before me in the torch-lit snow, glaring from a grate of blood and pheasant feathers, red and copper shavings.
A day of blood; of sun, snow, and blood. Blood-red! What a useless adjective that is. Nothing is as beautifully, richly red as flowing blood on snow. It is strange that the eye can love what mind and body hate.
