This was a day made absolute, the sun unflawed, the blue sky pure. Slate roofs and crows’ wings burned white like magnesium. The shining mauve and silver woods, snow-rooted, bit sharply black into the solid blueness of the sky. The air was cold. The wind rose from the north, like cold fire. All was revealed, the moment of creation, a rainbow poured upon rock and shaped into woods and rivers.
The peregrine flew north across the valley. He was half a mile away, but I could see the brown and black of his wings, the shining gold of his back. The pale cream of his tail coverts looked like a band of straw twined round the base of his tail. Thinking he would return down wind, I went into the fields by the river to watch for him. I stood in the lee of a hawthorn hedge, looking through it to the north, sheltered from the bitter wind. By midday, small cumulus clouds were smoking up from the horizon. They were very white, but those that followed were greyer and larger. Warm air was rising where snow had thawed.
The hawk must have circled over, high and unseen, for at one o’clock he was moving up wind again across the open fields. Already he was two hundred feet up, and climbing fast. He sculled easily forward, then glided. With every glide he lifted fifty feet into the wind. At five hundred feet he spread his wings and tail and turned away in slow majestic arcs. Each long luxuriant circle floated him a hundred feet higher, and the wind drifted him southward. In half a minute he had doubled his height and was very small, and far beyond the river; another half-minute and he was barely visible, two thousand feet above the fields. The thermal tower of air, which had wafted him so high, cooled away in the wind. He began to beat his wings rapidly between glides, moving in narrower circles. Joy became hunting. He was quick and nimble in the sky, intricately weaving and threading the loops of his figures of eight. His wings sprang sharply back from the resilient air. He crossed the sun and was hidden, but I found him on the other side, climbing higher and smaller. A blackbird in the hedge behind me must suddenly have seen him for the first time. In spite of the great distance between them he started to scold frantically, jumping from twig to twig in an agony of apprehension. The hawk became very small. I thought he must be leaving for the coast, but when almost out of sight he swung round in a glide and came down and back into the wind, till I could just see the shape of his wings. In light less perfect I would never have seen him at all, for I was looking up, at a sixty degree angle, at a bird half a mile away.
He hovered, and stayed still, striding on the crumbling columns of air, curved wings jerking and flexing. Five minutes he stayed there, fixed like a barb in the blue flesh of sky. His body was still and rigid, his head turned from side to side, his tail fanned open and shut, his wings whipped and shuddered like canvas in the lash of the wind. He side-slipped to his left, paused, then glided round and down into what could only be the beginning of a tremendous stoop. There is no mistaking the menace of that first easy drifting fall. Smoothly, at an angle of fifty degrees, he descended; not slowly, but controlling his speed; gracefully, beautifully balanced. There was no abrupt change. The angle of his fall became gradually steeper till there was no angle left, but only a perfect arc. He curved over and slowly revolved, as though for delight, glorying in anticipation of the dive to come. His feet opened and gleamed golden, clutching up towards the sun. He rolled over, and they dulled, and turned towards the ground beneath, and closed again. For a thousand feet he fell, and curved, and slowly turned, and tilted upright. Then his speed increased, and he dropped vertically down. He had another thousand feet to fall, but now he fell sheer, shimmering down through dazzling sunlight, heart-shaped, like a heart in flames. He became smaller and darker, diving down from the sun. The partridge in the snow beneath looked up at the black heart dilating down upon him, and heard a hiss of wings rising to a roar. In ten seconds the hawk was down, and the whole splendid fabric, the arched reredos and immense fan-vaulting of his flight, was consumed and lost in the fiery maelstrom of the sky.
And for the partridge there was the sun suddenly shut out, the foul flailing blackness spreading wings above, the roar ceasing, the blazing knives driving in, the terrible white face descending – hooked and masked and horned and staring-eyed. And then the back-breaking agony beginning, and snow scattering from scuffling feet, and snow filling the bill’s wide silent scream, till the merciful needle of the hawk’s beak notched in the straining neck and jerked the shuddering life away.
And for the hawk, resting now on the soft flaccid bulk of his prey, there was the rip and tear of choking feathers, and hot blood dripping from the hook of the beak and rage dying slowly to a small hard core within.
And for the watcher, sheltered for centuries from such hunger and such rage, such agony and such fear, there is the memory of that sabring fall from the sky, and the vicarious joy of the guiltless hunter who kills only through his familiar, and wills him to be fed.
