The slow thaw continues, and birds are returning to the valley. Today there were three hundred fieldfares in trees by the brook. Blackbirds and chaffinches were in the woods, and a skylark sang. A hundred mallard, twenty woodpigeons, and a mute swan, were feeding on a heap of potatoes. The flew off together when I approached, and manoeuvred together as a flock before returning to their food. There were many fox and hare tracks in the snow, broken by flattened hollows where the animals had rolled about in it, presumably for pleasure, as dogs do.
I found more peregrine kills: six woodpigeons and a rook. One of the woodpigeons had been killed only an hour of two before; its blood was still being absorbed by the snow. The wings, breast-bone, legs, and pelvis, lay at the centre of a widely scattered circle of blowing feathers. The deep corrugated toe marks of the peregrine were mixed with the spidery footprints of a crow and the pad marks of a fox. Both fox and crow had apparently tried to drive the hawk from its kill. A large area of snow had been trampled by their feet. The scaly rings and bumpy pads of the hawk’s toes, which help it to grip its prey, had made deep dents in the snow. These odd, thick-toed, knobbly footprints are quite different from those of other birds. To rest my hand in the place where the peregrine had stood so recently was to experience a strong feeling of proximity, of identification. Footprints in snow are strangely moving. They seem an almost shameful betrayal of the creatures that make them, as though something of themselves had been left defenceless. The valley is covered with the footprints of birds that the cold weather has killed, pathetic memorials that the sun is slowly eroding.
At midday the tiercel circled in hazy sunshine and drifted away in the south-east wind. I tried to follow, but the snow was too deep for me. Ditches and gullies have been filled in and hidden. One can plunge without warning into six feet of snow.
All through the clear afternoon, little owls called, magpies flashed in the sun, and migrating gulls circled north-east. They flew high, and I could not see them without binoculars. Their loud cackling cries came down from an empty sky.
