I went out at four o’clock. The evening of the night was dark, and the warm west wind blew wet. Owls were calling in the long dim twilight before dawn. At six o’clock the first lark sang, and soon there were hundreds of larks singing up into the brightening air. Straight up from their nests they rose, as the last stars rose up into the paling sky. Rooks cawed as the light increased, and gulls began to fly inland. Robins, wrens, and thrushes, sang.
In the flat fens near the coast I lost my way. Rain drifted softly through the watery green haze of fields. Everywhere there was the sound and smell of water, the feeling of a land withdrawn, remote, deep sunk in silence. To be lost in such a place, however briefly, was a true release from the shackles of the known roads and the blinding walls of towns.
By seven o’clock the sky was clear again. I climbed on to the coast wall just as the sun was rising. Quickly it pierced the rim of the sea; a huge, red, hostile, floating sun. As it lifted heavily off into the sky, light flashed and shattered from it, and it was a globe no longer.
A hen-harrier rose from its roosting place on the saltings and flew to the wall. It hovered low above the withered grass, which moved dryly in the draught from its wings. It was coloured like the waving grass: grey-brown and fawn and reddish-brown. The ends of its wings were black, and its long brown tail was barred and mottled light and dark. At the base of its tail the brilliant white splash of its upper tail coverts shone in the sunlight. It flew slowly into the wind, keeping low, beating its wings twice and then reaching them above its back in a ‘V’ as it glided forward with the dark primaries splaying open and curling upward. It hovered again, and glided down over the steep sides of the wall in long banking curves. It crossed from side to side, drifting over the grass still glittering with rain, lightly, softly, silently riding over the bending grass and looking down through the parting stems for prey. Imperceptibly it drifted away and was lost as suddenly as a shadow is lost when the sun goes in.
Slowly the wind dropped, and the air became warmer. The sun shone through a thin parchment of high cloud. Distance lengthened. Horizons sharpened as the morning grew. The grey sea dwindled out, mumbling with a line of foam the far edges of the shining mud beyond the vast moorland of the saltings. The remote farms and villages clustered up along the top of the empty inland fields. Redshanks chased and fretted over the broad dyke that runs beside the wall. More rain was coming, but for the moment all was still.
At half past ten, clouds of small birds sprayed up from the fields and a merlin cleaved through them like an arrow, dipping and darting. It was a thin narrow falcon, flying low. It swept over the sea-wall, curved out across the saltings, and swung up into steep spirals, its long sting-like body swaying in the blur of its jabbing, flicking wings. It flew fast, yet its wide circling seemed laborious and its rising slow. At three hundred feet it came round in a long curve, and poised, half-hovering. Then it flew forward into the wind towards a skylark singing high above the fields. It had seen the lark go up, and had circled to gain height before making an attack. From behind, the merlin’s wings looked very straight. They seemed to move up and down with a shallow flicking action, a febrile pulsation, much faster than any other falcon’s. It reached the lark in a few seconds, and they fell away towards the west, jerking and twisting together, the lark still singing. It looked like a swallow chasing a bee. They rushed down the sky in zigzags and I lost them in the green of the distant fields. There rapid, shifting, dancing motion had been so deft and graceful that it was difficult to believe that hunger was the cause of it and death the end. The killing that follows the hunting flight of hawks comes with a shocking force, as though the hawk had suddenly gone mad and had killed the thing it loved. The striving of birds to kill, or to save themselves from death, is beautiful to see. The greater the beauty the more terrible the death.
