A brilliant south-west gale, broken sunlight, warm white clouds. Plover circled in the gusty air, golden nebulae receding down the blue reaches of the northern sky. The sky’s horizon lies far beyond the earth’s. High birds shine in that bright corona long after lower ones have dulled into the iron rim beneath. Lapwings rose to the soaring hawk – hooked bill, barbed talons hidden – like fish rising to a gay resplendent fly. They are lured to the sky and are killed as they rise. Once high they are safe, but they die as they rise.
At half past twelve the dark brown tiercel perched on the straggling east-west hazel hedge that bisects north orchard. He was sunning himself after bathing, while the golden tiercel hunted the valley. Occasionally he flew up into the gale, hovered, then planed down to the hedge again. At two o’clock he flew with more determined wing-beats, flicking forward with quick, short jabs. He hovered for a moment, swooped with wings half closed, and plunged into the sere grass between the apple trees, feet lowering and wings spreading wide. He rose huddled, and flapped heavily down to the brook, carrying a red-legged partridge and a long red stalk of seeding dock. The partridge had reached up to eat the seeds of the dock. The hawk had seen the movement and had pounced on the partridge before it had finished feeding, had lifted stalk and bird together from the ground.
He returned an hour later, and perched in an apple tree at the edge of open ploughland. I sat and watched him from thirty yards, away from all cover. After two minutes of uneasy glaring, he flew straight at me as though intending to attack. He swept up into the wind before he reached me, and hovered twenty feet above my head, looking down. I felt as a mouse must feel, crouching unconcealed in shallow grass, cringing and hoping. The hawk’s keen-bladed face seemed horribly close. The glazed inhuman eyes – so foreign and remote – swivelled like brown globes in the long sockets of the moustachial bars. The badger-coloured face was vivid and sharp against the sky. I could not look away from the crushing light of those eyes, from the impaling horn of that curved bill. Many birds are snared in the tightening loop of his gaze. They turn their heads towards him as they die. He returned to the tree, unsatisfied, and I left him alone for a while.
From two o’clock till five he rested on the hazel hedge or hovered above the orchard. He was never out of my sight. He always perched on the highest twigs, however slender and pliant. Up and down, side to side, hawk and twig bent and swayed together in the gale. He kept his eye-level stable by grotesque dipping and twisting movements of his head and neck, as though he were constantly peering over the top or round the sides of an irritating obstruction. His big citron-yellow feet grasped the thin twig clumsily, one placed above the other, their polished scaly rings glinting in the sunlight. When he faced me, full-cropped and sleepy, he was so broad and barrel-chested that his wings did not show at all. Below his creamy throat, which was lightly flecked with brown, the feathers of his breast were ochreous or tawny, seamed vertically with chocolate brown and glowing in the sun like tarnished bronze. The dark brown moustache lobes hung down from lighter-coloured lateral bars above the eyes. The crown streaked vertically into a close wood-graining of reddish-brown and buff, tinged with grey, and paler at the nape. The bulbous eyes were brown as malty woodland mud, deep sunk in sockets of pale turquoise skin. The cere was yellow; the base of the bill grey, the hooked tip blue.
He seldom looked at me, and he did not follow the movements of my hands. He was watching the long grass, and listening. Listening like an owl, with his facial feathers bristling, and his ear coverts lifting and falling. If he had eaten much of the partridge he could not have been hungry, yet he was obviously alert and unable to stop hunting. Sometimes he looked up at the gulls that were soaring north-east. They recognised him, and screamed harshly as they drifted away. Occasionally he turned his head right round so that he was facing the northern half of the orchard. Again, suddenly, he flew towards me and hovered overhead, looking curiously, indifferently down, as we look down at fish, so far removed from us by the reflecting curve of water that we can never fear them, unless we fall. The undersides of his wings were creamy yellow, overlaid by a narrow mesh of thin brown lines and a faint silvery sheen. The axillaries, and the inner halves of the secondary coverts, were spotted with darker brown or with larger, diamond-shaped marks.
Unable to soar because of the gale, he hovered persistently with wonderful power and control. He exhausted his hunting urge by hovering over every part of the orchard, but he did not go beyond its boundaries. At half past three, while he was perching, hundreds of plover circled high above the valley. The other tiercel was hunting again. By four o’clock the orchard tiercel was quieter. He stopped hovering, and flew slowly down to an elm. After preening, he opened his bill wide and puffed out his throat, like a pigeon cooing. This gaping, frog-like bulging in and out of his throat went on for ten minutes, while he scratched his throat feathers vigorously with one foot and wriggled his neck. Then he cast up his pellet of undigested bone and feather and went to sleep at once. Half an hour later he flew across the field to the dead oak, and slept there, completely at rest.
The wind had fallen, and clouds were larger and darker. The golden-coloured tiercel swung low across the fields like a beam of light, and swept up to the highest branch of an elm, in a torrent of wing-beats. The long, rowing strokes of his wings were quite different from the shorter, jabbing beats of the brown tiercel. It was like comparing a borzoi with a collie. He perched for a moment, like a reddish-gold arrow suddenly wedged in a tree, then went plunging and leaping away to the north. The brown tiercel slept in the oak; he did not see the other hawk come or go.
After five o’clock the wind dropped completely. The evening was very calm. Released from the gale, the whole valley seemed to drift slowly southward.
