The drizzle of the morning thinned to mist, the mist gave way to cloud, but the day stayed damp and dull. The north-east wind was cold.
The dark brown tiercel returned to the orchard at eleven o’clock, cast his pellet from an elm, and flew off again. I found several pellets in the grass below the tree. All contained the fur and bones of mice, and some woodpigeon feathers. The tiercel reappeared at half past twelve, and stayed in or near the orchard for the rest of the day. He now has two dark blue-black adult feathers in the centre of each wing, and two blue-and-white barred feathers in the centre of his tail.
Fro three and a half hours he was still-hunting from high perches, from lombardy poplars or from alders or oaks by the brook, looking intently down into the orchard grass. The height of his perch was important to him. He landed on the highest twig of a poplar, looked around, then flew to one a few inches taller. After further peering, and measuring with his eye, he eventually flew to the tallest of the line. His footwork was beautifully precise and nimble. He never fumbled his grasp of even the thinnest, bending twig. Often I stood only twenty yards from his perch, and saw him looking over my head into the orchard behind me. He had no fear. If I clapped my hands or shouted he would sometimes glance down at me, but only for a second. Without binoculars I could see his eyes, and every detail of his plumage. With them I could see the smallest features, such as the stiff rictal bristles quivering round the base of his bill. The feathers of his back, mantle, and secondaries, were closely barred dark brown and buff, and were tinted reddish. The upper tail coverts were plain reddish brown, lighter in colour than tail or mantle; the primaries were black. The scapulars were distinctive: barred black and gold, with a luminous golden sheen, like satin, which showed up at a great distance in dull light.
After much staring and peering, with his head never still, the hawk occasionally flew forward and up into the wind, hovered for twenty to thirty seconds, then went back to his perch. He did not stoop or make any sort of attack. Distant partridges called whenever he flew up, but those close by were hidden in the long yellow grass, and I flushed them from places where the hawk had hovered. He was back on his perch by then and was not interested in pursuit. Sparrows shrilled at him from bushes, hopping about in agitation, turning their small, angry faces upward. He ignored them, just as he ignored my vacuous, upturned face. He concentrated fanatically on his curiously unsuccessful hunting, or pretence of hunting.
Between two and three o’clock he became increasingly alert and restive. At three he flew south-east and out of sight. His orchard hunting was obviously over. He flew into the dead oak, an hour later, where he stayed till dusk. He caught and ate six worms. Each time, he simply planed down to the cornfield, picked up a worm in his talons, and carried it back to a branch of the oak. Holding it down with one foot he ate it slowly in four or five bites. All his movements were leisured and deliberate. He had the look of a gourmet relishing some rare seasonal delicacy. More substantial prey had been eaten earlier. Worms, like mice, are merely savouries, which moulting peregrines seem unable to resist.
