A tawny owl, long dead, lay at the edge of South Wood. I lifted its broad wings, and powder down puffed out of them like dust. When I threw the light dry carcass aside, the long talons caught uncannily in my gloves, as though they still had life. The gristly, powerful legs, feathered to the toes, end in these curved hooks, sharp and hard as steel needles. They seem imperishable. They will outlive the crumbling bones and the blowing feathers, as the grass grows tall above them.
Under a blackthorn, beside the brook, I found a freshly killed woodpigeon. Blossom was drifting down into the drying blood. A footpath runs between the two woods, and is separated from them by small thorn-hedged fields and a scattering of oak and elm. There is a dead tree to the south of the path: twenty feet of ruined elm, branchless, jagged at the top like a broken tooth. On this mossy fang the lighter, golden-coloured tiercel was resting. He flew east when I approached, circled, then drifted down towards me in a series of steep glides and stalls. I stood near the dead tree and watched his descent. The big rounded head, suspended between the rigid wings, grew larger, and the staring eyes appeared, looking boldly through the dark visor of the eye mask. There was no widening of the eyes in fear, no convulsive leap aside; he just came steadily down and glided past me, twenty yards away. His eyes were fixed on my face, and his head turned as he went past, so that he could keep me in view. He was not afraid, nor was he disturbed when I lowered and raised my binoculars or shifted my position. He was either indifferent or mildly curious. I think he regards me now as part hawk, part man; worth flying over to look at from time to time, but never wholly to be trusted; a crippled hawk, perhaps, unable to fly or to kill cleanly, uncertain and sour of temper.
Soon the high white clouds were breaking up, and melting in the sun. I kept the hawk on the move, hoping he would soar. At half past one, tired of being chased, he glided slowly up, spread his wings along the warm surface of the air, and rose from sight. Circling and drifting, he floated off into the sky till my eyes saw only a sharp speck piercing through the blue, then nothing. Using binoculars, I found him again, cutting long graceful arcs across feathers of white cloud above the wooded ridge. I lay on my back on the dry earth, and watched him slowly shrink and fade. He created beautiful patterns and doodles in the sky, as swiftly evanescent as the swirling shapes of waves upon the shore. The sun was warm, hedges were fretted with green, larks sang up beneath the soaring hawk. There was firmness of heart in the land at last.
The hawk passed up into the lighter air above the hills, and I lay contentedly among the small sounds of the field, awaiting his return. Twenty minutes later he drifted back from the east and began slowly to descend. He swept to and fro across the wind, circling in figures of eight, crossing above the footpath and circling over the fields on either side. When each figure was completed, he glided straight forward above the path, moving very smoothly and fast into the wind, with wings curved back. Then he turned slowly into the next figure. He was using the long straight footpath as a guiding line. He came down a thousand feet in this way, but even when almost overhead he was still merely a speck in the sky. Through binoculars he was just recognisable as a hawk. Easily, majestically, he subdued and rode upon the wind, soothing it down under the soft hollows of his wings, mastering the sudden tempests and spanning the deep concavities of the turbulent air.
A sudden lunge, a steep glide down towards the North Wood, and the line has broken. The hawk dives down like a fish that is suddenly free. A woodpigeon flies above the wood, looks up, veers wildly, but flies on. The dark speck of the hawk plunges, dilates to colour, recoils like a gun as the golden feet flash forward to strike. Grey feathers spurt outwards and float upon the air. The dead pigeon threshes down in to the trees. The hawk has gone. The air seems empty and slack.
Late in the afternoon I find the kill, lying on its back in swampy green ground between high thin birches and hornbeams. The footprints of the hawk are trampled deep in the mud; the pigeon’s feet are clean. It has been hollowed out to the bone, like an ivory boat.
