White waves swept over molten blue water, searing the warm sea-wall. The tide was rising. The sun-glittered estuary was bright with falls of shining birds. Shelduck floated into creeks and bays, or rested big and white on green marshes. Redshank and skylark sang. Lapwings tumbled and danced. Ringed plover pondered the waves, or shoaled above them silvery, like fish flying. One sang his deep song along the thinning edge of shore, ‘cook-a-doo, cook-a-doo, cook-a-do’, wings tilting and rolling. Slow majestic pintail rode high upon the water, a patrician elegance of brown and white, aloof and narrow-necked. Tree-fringed islands softened the splinters of white sea-wall that pierced out to the long horizon. Distant almond blossom shone like coral.
Pairs of partridges whirred dryly from the wall. At first their parched calls were quite unsynchronised. Then the jerked down-beating wings began to force out a diminishing throaty sound that gradually expired as the birds glided over a hedge and dropped to cover. They were like wound clockwork toys slowly spluttering into silence.
When the spring tide cleared the saltings, waders took to the sky, shimmering and skimming in grey and silver discs, spilling and raining down, then whirling up like waves lifted from the water. I kept hearing a curious snoring sound, followed by bubbling, like someone breathing in and then gargling. Occasionally I saw a trail of bubbles in the water. Eventually the dark, whiskered muzzle of a seal appeared above the surface, and then the whole sleek streaming head. He looked at me, breathed in, and dived below. Slowly he splashed and idled round the bay and out to the estuary again. It is a good life, a seal’s, here in these shallow waters. Like the lives of so many air and water creatures, it seems a better one than ours. We have no element. Nothing sustains us when we fall.
A dead porpoise was humped upon the shingle, heavy as a sack of cement. The smooth skin was blotched with pink and grey; the tongue black, and hard as stone. Its mouth hung open like the nail-studded sole gaping from an old boot. The teeth looked like the zip-fastener of a gruesome nightdress-case.
I found sixteen peregrine kills: three black-headed gulls, a redshank, and a wigeon, on the shingle; five lapwings, two wigeon, a rook, a jackdaw, and a shelduck, on the marsh. The shelduck lay at the end of a long trail of feathers torn out by the ripping impact of the stoop. A black-headed gull had been plucked and eaten on the smooth green lawn of a summer bungalow. It lay at the exact centre, reclining in a mass of white feathers, like a dead flower among spilt petals.
Late in the afternoon, a falcon peregrine flew down the estuary; lean, majestic, big as a curlew. Far above, there were flocks of grey plover glittering in high sunlight like the pilot fish that swim before a shark. The falcon glided, and began to soar. Drifting in the warm west wind, she circled up and disappeared into the blue mist of the distant sky. Nothing happened. The tide was ebbing, and waders crowded the growing line of shore. Gulls began to move out from the land. Half an hour later, I was looking through binoculars at a flock of starlings flying high overhead, when I saw beyond them a dark speck that did not move. It did not move, but it grew larger. It grew larger very quickly. It was the falcon falling in a tremendous stoop. Coming straight down at me, it had not the shape of a bird. It was like a falling head, a shark’s head dropping from the sky. It made a faint sighing that quickly hardened to a shrill whining sound, like the wind harping through high wires. A great black-backed gull obscured the peregrine for a second as it passed over towards the shore. Its yellow bill, red-spotted, gleamed in the sun; its cold, pale eyes looked down. It had its usual heavily indifferent expression. There was a loud slamming bang. The gull buckled like hot metal. Its head jerked and flopped. The falcon had struck it in the neck.
After the long, almost gradual descent, this final flinging blow seemed dazzlingly fast. The falcon hooked and tore the gull’s neck apart with her hind talons. She shivered away from the impact, like a splinter of wood flying from a cut log. Then she curved gently out and up above the water, recovering control. From a hundred feet up, the gull slid down quite slowly and emptied itself out upon the shingle. The falcon dropped beside it, and began to feed. The flesh was peeled away. The raw bones stood to the sky, like the ribs of a wrecked ship.
