Soft, reflective, mooing sounds came from a small oak in the hedge beside the sea-wall. It was a hollow tree, with a short stubby bole, and a crown of branches growing outwards from the hollow centre. When I stood beside it, I could just see the top of a little owl’s head above the rim of the bole. He knew I was there, and after a minute he walked up a branch to have a look at me. We were about ten feet apart. He blinked; first with both eyes, then with the left one only. He bobbed deeply at the knees in a sort of quick curtsy, and stretched his neck up till it was thin and elongated. The tufty white stripes above his eyes moved and crinkled. Then he looked away, as though suddenly embarrassed.
He walked a bit farther up the branch, watching his feet as he did so, and turned to have another look at me. Slowly I raised my binoculars. The owl was startled, and ducked his head. But he was also curious, and for several minutes he stared straight into the lenses. His huge round eyes were bright, yet quite expressionless, as though they had been painted on to his head. The black pupil was the same width as the vivid yellow iris. He blinked a lot, and the grey nictitating membranes clicked sickeningly across his eyes for a second, like a doll’s eyes closing. He did not seem able to focus me. I felt I was without meaning for him. I was like one of those trick photographs of a familiar object; if it cannot be recognised it is just nothing at all. His interest gradually slackened and he began to look away. He forgot me quite suddenly, and fluttered down into the tree. I was outside and he was inside, and he had nothing to say to me.
A little owl’s legs are surprisingly thick and powerful for so small a bird. They look slightly hairy, like an animal’s legs. The whole bird looks completely out of proportion when perching, like a two-legged head. One must try not to be anthropomorphic, yet it cannot be denied that little owls are very funny to watch. In flight, they are just owls, but at rest they seem to be natural clowns. They do not know it, of course. And that makes them much funnier, for they always appear indignant, outraged, brimming over with choler. There is nothing funny about their sharp claws and rending beak. They are killers. That is what they are for. But whenever I see one close, in a tree, I laugh aloud.
At dusk, before hunting begins, they are different again. Their spring song is a single woodwind note, rising, hollow, full of sweet pathos. It sounds like a distant curlew calling in a dream. The owls answer one another across the fields and valleys as dusk gathers in the trees. Then the spring night comes, smelling of cold grass.
Leaving the owl to his fretful sleep, I walked along the sea-wall towards the mouth of the estuary. Quiet sunlight gleamed the falling tide. Over a ploughed field something snake-like slithered and swam. It was a stoat following the scent of its prey, moving keenly and fast. It ran up and down furrows, bounded across ridges, doubled back, looped, twisted, worked farther out into the field, then came back towards the edge again. It crouched, ran, sprang, and crept, quivering with excitement, seeing the vivid colour of a smell. It was like a man trying to escape from a maze. It leapt on to the marsh, and I saw its red-brown back undulating away towards a grazing rabbit that was big with disease and helpless as a bogged cow. But the stoat did not kill it. It survives, protected by the horror of its own private death.
A pair of shoveler landed in the fleet, hitting the water with a whooshing splash after stalling for a long time. The rich bishop’s purple of the drake’s belly glowed in the sun. He floated deep in the water, hanging his heavy bill like the low jowl of a bloodhound, his dark head shining green and glossy.
On the shingle beach I found the remains of two woodpigeons, which a peregrine had killed quite recently. The high spring tide, by a ghoulish freak, had draped the headless carcass of the great black-backed gull on a strand of barbed wire, close to the sea-wall. That was a remarkable kill, even for a falcon. A great black-backed gull weighs four to five pounds, a falcon two to two and a half. The flayed carcass of the gull was as heavy as a full-fleshed woodpigeon. These big gulls are messy, absent-minded killers. I was not sorry to see one die.
A flock of twenty bar-tailed godwits fed at the tide’s edge with curlew and grey plover. One godwit was very restless. It flew over the mud-flats, plunging and cork-screwing wildly, tossing and slashing its long bill about like a fencer’s foil. It careered erratically from one group of waders to another, swooping and flinging up above them, flushing dunlin, putting up duck from the saltings. It seemed to be deliberately mimicking the attack of a hawk. Its actions were remarkably like those of a hunting peregrine. If I had not been able to see the length of its bill, I would, at a distance, have mistaken it for a hawk. It is very curious that, an hour later, a tiercel peregrine came quickly from inland and swooped at waders in just the same way as the godwit had been swooping. He chased a godwit for several minutes, and eventually disappeared beyond the island, still in close pursuit.
At four o’clock, tiercel and falcon soared above the estuary together. A heron rose from feeding in the shallows, and flew heavily inland towards its nest. I expected to see the two peregrines stoop at it in the spectacular manner so often described in books about falconry. But they did not stoop. The falcon ignored the heron. The tiercel swooped past it and attacked it from below, chattering round its head like a monkey. When the heron disgorged a fish, the tiercel dived after it and made several attempts to catch it, but without success. Then he soared up to rejoin the falcon, and they circled out of sight across the marshes to the north.
Day ended with moonlight on the water. Brilliant stars appeared, many birds called, lights glimmered out across the estuary. Red clouds shone above the inland west.
