All day the south-west wind rose. The warm, sunlit air of morning towered away to clouds. At eleven o’clock, two hundred woodpigeons clattered up from the orchard as the dark brown tiercel arrived there from the south. I had just entered at the eastern end. We met by the brook. For an hour he watched and hovered, perching on many trees. He caught a mouse. To me he was still apparently indifferent, but he kept me in sight, when I moved, by following or flying higher. He has found a meaning for me, but I do not know what it is. I am his slow and moribund companion, Caliban to his Ariel.
Each time I have seen him he has tried to soar, but the weather has not been favourable. His attempts have been feeble and tentative. At half past twelve today he tried again. He rose to three hundred feet, turned, and glided down wind. He wanted to pull out of the glide into an upward circle, but he was travelling too fast. He flashed above the orchard, folded his wings back, and stooped to perch on the hazel hedge. After another half hour of restless flying and hovering, he returned to the hedge. I sat with my back against an apple tree, watching the hunched, unhappy-looking hawk. The sun was hot, the grass dry and warm. Skylarks sang, white clouds drifted above. Down by the brook, a green woodpecker called. The hawk looked up at the sky, shifted his feet about, looked down at the hedge, then flew. He had not seen prey. He flew very lightly, buoyantly, his wings just surfing the breeze. He slanted and jinked upward like a snipe, touching air deftly, delicately, seeking wing-hold on its gliding smoothness.
In the lower slope of the orchard there is a slight hollow where no trees grow and the grass is scanty and short. The ground there is sheltered from the wind, and warm air rises from it. The hawk spread his wings and tail above this hollow, leaned slowly round into a long half-circle, and turned down wind. He drifted away, and higher. Soon he was high and small and black above the northern end of the orchard. After weeks of skulking, of perching and hovering, he was released, afloat, aloft: he had wrenched himself free.
An abrupt and narrow turn, and he was suddenly still, head to wind, a thousand feet up. For five minutes he hung motionless, tensing and flexing his swept-back wings, dark anchor mooring white cloud. He looked down at the orchard beneath him, twisting and turning his head, mobile, menacing, like the head of a snake looking out of a rock. The wind could not move him, the sun could not lift him. He was fixed and safe in a crevice of sky.
Loosened suddenly out into air, he straightened his wings and circled slowly higher. He slowed, steadied, balanced, and again was still. He was a small speck now, like the pupil of a distant eye. Serenely he floated. Then, like music breaking, he began to descend.
He slid forward and down to his left for two hundred feet, and then stopped. After a long still pause, he came down two hundred feet to his right, then stopped. In this vertical zigzag, from wing-hold to wing-hold, he slowly descended the sheer face of sky. There was not hesitation or checking. He simply dropped, and then stopped, as a spider drops on a thread, or a man on a rope. At last the long exhalation of descent was over. He was back in the thick-rinded air of earth.
I thought he would rest, but above open ploughland he rose again, unable to resist the basking warmth of the sky. Very slowly he rose, for he was still unpractised. His wings strained out and spread to their utmost, his head stretched forward, his eyes looked upward. After the first wide circle he knew he was safe. He relaxed, and looked down again. Under a big white cloud he wound away northward, dwindling up in his long sweeping circles. But he was reluctant to leave the orchard and he would not keep with the cloud. He glided slowly back, through a thousand feet of sunlit air, to perch in a tree near the brook. There he rested, after forty minutes of flight, but he did not sleep. When I went closer, he did not notice me. He did not look at anything. His eyes were open, but unfocused. He flew south, moving like a sleepwalker, gazing forward enrapt. His wings just touched and skimmed the air. The sun shone upon him, and he gleamed like a shield of silver water, glowed purple-brown and wet like dark ploughland after rain.
Beyond the line of poplars, he circled and began to soar again. This time he pulled across the wind, rising swiftly to the north-west, moving far out and very high above the river valley. Gliding, spiralling, hovering, sculling, he seemed to be freed at last from his orchard obsession. Free! You cannot know what freedom means till you have seen a peregrine loosed into the warm spring sky to roam at will through all the far provinces of light. Along the escarpments of the river air he rose with martial motion. Like a dolphin in green seas, like an otter in the startled water, he poured through deep lagoons of sky up to the high white reefs of cirrus. When my arms were aching, and I could watch him no longer, he blurred into a tiny speck and vanished from the bright circle of my vision. Soon I found him again, and saw him grow larger. Gradually, steadily, he grew larger. From thousands of feet above the valley he was diving back to the orchard, which he was not yet ready to leave completely. He grew from a speck to a blur, to a bird, to a hawk, to a peregrine; a winged head shouldering down through the wind. With a rush, with a flash, with a whirr of wings, he came down to the hedge ten yards away from me. He perched, he preened, he looked around; not tired, not tested even, by his half-hour of festive flight. With the whole valley to choose from, he had chosen to come back to the orchard where I was standing. There is a bond: impalpable, indefinable, but it exists.
It is now four o’clock. The sun is still warm, the sky almost cloudless. The tiercel looks upward. Following his gaze, I see a falcon circling over from the east. In the purity of sunlight, her clenched feet, and the pale feathers above them, gleam out in ivory and gold. The whole bird shines with a solid Aztec radiance, as though it were cast in bronze, not buoyant and feathery and hollow-boned. She saw the tiercel circling, and has come from the estuary to join him. That was the purpose of his flight. He rises from the orchard, and together they float slowly overhead, drifting, drifting and calling. Their harsh calls strike hard on the flinty sky. Peregrines often call when they first come to their winter home and again when they leave it. Slowly their slack circles tighten. Soon they are circling at great speed, one high above the other. In long sweeping arcs they rise away to the south-east, fast glides alternating with many deep, chopping wing-beats. There is urgency and strength in every movement. The sun and wind command them no longer. They have their own power, and know their course at last.
Now they can see the coast of Holland, a hundred miles away. They can see the winding mouths of the Scheldt, the white line of the dykes, and the far glitter of the Rhine, standing in the shadow of the night to come. They are leaving the familiar pattern of woods and fields, rivers and coloured farms: leaving the estuary, its green islands and the never ceasing movement of its serpent mud; leaving the tawny out-growths of the saltings, the sudden straightness of the coastline, the sharp sunlit edges of the land. These vivid images shrink into a rainbow of crushed colour, and set below the horizon of their memory. Other images arise, as yet like mirages distorted, to be made clear in the long whiteness of the continental coast, in far islands now in darkness, in cliffs and mountains sailing out from night.
