Two hundred golden plover fed in growing corn, listening and stabbing forward and down, like big thrushes. Many were already in summer plumage. Their back chests shone in the sun below the mustard yellow of their blacks, like black shoes half covered with buttercup dust. On the river bank I found the remains of a hare. It had been dead for several days. Fur had been plucked from the exposed bones. Some of the thinner bones had triangular pieces nipped out of them by a peregrine’s bill. It may have been found dead and eaten, but it is much more likely that it was killed by two peregrines hunting together. I have found hares like this before, usually in March, when moulting peregrines kill many mammals.
Robins sang in a wood near the river, clear as spring water, fresh as the curled, crisped heart of a lettuce. Like the tinkle of a harpsichord, their song has a misty brightness of nostalgia. The wood smelt of bark and ashes and dead leaves. Circles of cold sky shone at the end of rides. A cock bullfinch squatted on a sagging larch twig. He stretched his neck up towards the twig above him, bit off a bud with a delicate snip and twist of his bill, and chewed it ruminatively. Then he hung his head downwards and snipped off buds from a lower twig. He was a red and black fatty, idly grazing, occasionally exerting himself to breathe out the husky ‘dududu’ of his song, fat dewlap gently quivering. He was like a munching bullock feeding on hawthorn leaves. But the pull and twist of his bill to break off a bud reminded me of a peregrine breaking the neck of its prey. Whatever is destroyed, the act of destruction does not vary much. Beauty is vapour from the pit of death.
I went to the brook to look for the golden tiercel. I had not seen him in the valley since the 24th. At one o’clock a kestrel hovered above the fields near South Wood. His wings flicked the wind gingerly, like fingers lightly touching a hot iron. They quivered up and down like the blade of a ham knife. He dropped lower, and stayed still, wings bent back from the carpal joints, their pale edges flashing in the sun. Then he plunged vertically, parachuting down with bent wings streaming above. (Kestrels do not fold their wings to their sides when diving, as peregrines do.) He levelled out at the last moment, and thudded onto something hidden in the grass. It hung limp and grey from his bill as he flew to a molehill to eat it. When I moved towards him, he went at once, leaving his prey behind. It was a common shrew, very small and light. The impressions of the kestrel’s gripping toes still showed on its soft grey fur. I replaced it on the molehill, hoping the hawk would come back for it when I had gone.
For two hours I waited under the wych elm near the dead tree, but the peregrine did not appear. A curious bleating sound began in the sky above me, very faint at first, gradually becoming louder. It was a snipe drumming. I looked for him at fifty feet, but found him eventually at nearer five hundred. Small as a lark, he circled very fast, covering a large area. He shone and twinkled in the sun, or cut across white clouds like a black diamond. Every twenty seconds he tilted into a shallow dive and spread his tail feathers wide apart so that the air beating against them made that curious comb-and-tissue-paper bleating sound, which is called drumming. There were eight to ten distinguishable buzzing notes, the fourth or fifth being the loudest. They rose to a crescendo, then died away as the snipe resumed his level circling. The sound was astonishingly loud and vibrant. It was like a succession of giant arrows thrumming violently overhead. It was an ominous sound, as though an oracle was about to speak from the sky. It gave me the feeling of having nowhere to hide. After circling and drumming for five minutes, the snipe dropped to the marshy ground near the brook. There are always snipe there in March, if the water-level is high, but they never remain to breed.
Half an hour later, drumming began again. The snipe circled till he was even higher than before, till he was only just visible. As I watched him I saw what I took to be a second snipe, circling lower down. But in binoculars I recognised it at once as the tiercel peregrine. He rose quickly towards the snipe, which was not aware of danger till the hawk was within fifty feet of him. Then his drumming stopped and he began to jink up at a steep angle, as he does when flushed from the ground. The hawk toiled after him. The snipe flew downwards but the hawk stooped at once and forced him to climb again. This manoeuvre was repeated ten or eleven times, till both birds were almost hidden in the upper sky. They towered to a great height above the river, where I expected the almost exhausted snipe to make his last effort to escape by dropping down into a reed-bed. He fell quite suddenly, as though he had been struck. He tumbled vertically down. The hawk slanted down more smoothly, cutting in towards him. Five hundred feet above the river the two silhouettes merged into one dark bird, which rose again, and came slowly back to the brook. The tiercel took his prey to the dead elm. He plucked and ate it there, while sunlight glowed his feather-rippling back to the colour of golden wheat. He rested after feeding, then flew east towards his roosting tree, a solitary elm on one of the estuary islands.
