Spring evening; the air mild, without edges, smelling of damp grass, fresh soil, and farm chemicals. There is less bird-song now. Many of the singing birds of March were migrants, and have gone back to the north. Most of the blackbirds and skylarks have gone, but a hundred fieldfares still roost in trees by the river. Reed buntings have come back to their nesting territories. The white rumps of wheatears star the dark brown ploughland. Two peregrine kills lie beside the river. Both are woodpigeons. One is hardly touched; light still shines with an intense, fanatic blueness from its fish-like eyes. The other has been remarkably well eaten. It is deep in a reed-bed, near a huge pile of plucked feathers; just a husk of hollow bones.
A swallow flits past, purple against the roaring whiteness of the weir, blue over the green smoothness of the river. As so often on spring evenings, no birds sing near me, while all the distant trees and bushes ring with song. Like all human beings, I seem to walk within a hoop of red-hot iron, a hundred yards across, that sears away all life. When I stand still, it cools, and slowly disappears. Seven o’clock. Under elms and hawthorns it is already dusk. A bird flies low across the field, coming straight towards me. It skims over the long grass, like an owl. The deep keel of its breast-bone actually touches and parts the grass as it comes. Its wings beat easily, fanning high, their tips almost meeting above its back. Its head is broad and owl-like. There is a wonderfully exciting softness and silent stealth in its fast approach across the shadowed field. It is looking down into the grass, and only occasionally glancing up to see where it is going. As it comes nearer, I can see that it is a hunting peregrine, a tiercel, trying to flush partridges by flying very low.
He sees me and swerves to his right, swings up to perch in a big wych elm. The last pale sunlight shines on his broad back, which gleams like cloth of gold. He is alert, avid, never still. Soon he dives smoothly down and flickers erratically away to the north-east. He lands on an overhead cable, out in the open fields, and stays there for fifteen minutes. He is very upright and watchful, a bulky silhouette in the fading light, looking back over his left shoulder. Then he flies low and fast across ploughland and behind trees, accelerating with long cleaving wing-strokes. Spring dusk; creak of bats’ wings over the steel river, curlew-call of the lemuring owls.
