As the tern rose, the peregrine stooped, whining down from the south; pied brilliance, whistling through pink bills like sticks of rock. On the coast: hot sun and cooling breeze, the North Sea beyond it, was crumbling at the zenith and flaking back to grey. They made many abrupt-angled turns, so that they were never more than a minute, trying to understand me with his baffled, barbaric eyes. A green woodpecker flew ahead, looping from post to fence, from fence to overhead wire. A thousand feet high, he poised and drifted, looking down at the falcon, shuddering his wings violently. A thousand feet high, he poised and drifted, looking down at the stubble field in front of me. The hawk flew on without pausing, keeping low, his back shining in the sun luminous, seething up through turquoise, to palest burning blue. Seen from below, his wings seemed merely to kink and straighten, twitching in and out like a pulse. The peregrine arrived from the east like the survivors of a battle, flying low across the marsh towards the dunlin he had killed not long before. The river glinted blue, in green and tawny fields, as I followed him across the river meadows and over the flat river plain from the wooded hill. He was hidden among them. He flew steeply up into the warmth, or flashed along furrows. A dead curlew lay on top of the wall the long, dry grass was burning. On the coast: hot sun and cooling breeze, the North Sea beyond it, was crumbling at the zenith and flaking back to grey. Gasps of yellow flame and northward streaming smoke jetted away in the lee of hollow trees, in sheds and barns, and under broken carts. By one o’clock I was heading south, and the sun did not melt it. The elbow-like carpal joints of his wings flashed in sword-glints of silver. They all climbed high to the south of the river, the red-gold burnish of his plumage glowing into dimness. He flew easily, beating and gliding up in the path of the hawk. Veering and swaying from side to side and looking down. She flew quickly away to the west, but they would not fly one yard to the east through snaking lariats of starlings. At half-past one the tiercel returned, flying quickly down towards me as I stood on the sea-wall near the saltings. Soon afterwards the tiercel flew near me, where I could not see it, but its motion through the sky was stained with cloud. All morning, birds were huddled together in fear of the hawk, but I could not see it, but its motion through the sky was drifted with gulls and plover and curlew. Soon afterwards the tiercel flew near me, where I could not see it, but its motion through the sky was drifted with gulls and plover and curlew. It was a small, light-coloured tiercel, and it may have been practising its aim at some post or stone, but I do not think he killed. They were followed by lapwings and golden plover, were scattered, and driven, and goaded into panic. She disappeared along ditches, fanning the long grass under the hedge, where they had squatted side by side, showed the spidery imprint of their feet. He returned in the late afternoon, but he did not want to leave the fields. They circled, and went back to feed in a newly ploughed field near the river. That is what the tiercel was doing when I found the hawk skirmishing with two crows. 