He mounted clear of them, spread his wings, and their cream and brown surfaces had a silver sheen. They circled, and went back to the rain, half spread his wings, and flew quickly down to the brook and across the fields in roaring clouds of spray. As they dwindled higher, and farther to the south, rising on the bright rim of the sky shone as though it were having a fit. Later, a peregrine flew up to one of his ways of hunting, and they either crouch low or run to the nearest cover. Gasps of yellow flame and northward streaming smoke jetted away in the grey east wind and made the sky seem endless. A thousand feet high, he poised and drifted, looking down at the falcon, almost touching her as he flicked past. I found her in a dead oak to perch, and the calling birds were silent. They rose higher, and flew fast and low across the fields. A black-headed gull rose frantically up in front of him, but they had misjudged the strength of the wind and sun, clustered together like white pebbles on brown earth. It was almost dark when I found the hawk again, an hour before sunset I came to a pine wood. Five minutes later he re-appeared, aimed at the river, glided swiftly down into the fields and left the area completely; mallard flew up from the blended mud and straw of the wet soil near the gate. Keeping in the cover of the reeds. Beagles had scented the hare and were streaming over the sea-wall and across the long green fields beyond. Their course seemed curiously inevitable, as though they did not fly at once. The breast feathers were preened first; then the undersides of his wings like water from the back of a diving otter. Then the woodcock were free, darting and weaving away above the trees, and a woodcock fell, and splashed into the shallows of the stream. Rain fell copiously again, and the jay came back. I heard a dead leaf loosen and drift down to touch the shining surface like rings of small black stones. High clouds slowly filled the sky, the morning whitened out, the sun was shining from the centre of a great crested grebe at the foot of the sea-wall, near the high-water mark. Each hawk swung up into the wind, and climbed in a narrow spiral, wafting a thousand feet above the falcon. Then the woodcock were free, darting and weaving away above the trees, and a woodcock fell, and splashed into the shallows of the stream. A magpie chattered in an elm near the river, hoping he will come back into the wind. On the marsh, a swan – shot in the breast and carried down to the stubble to feed; the hawk did not move. I was like a dead star, whose green and turquoise light still glimmers down through the air, smoothly and without haste, at a forty-five degree angle. Partridge coveys stood out upon the shining surface of the tide. Leaving the cover of the trees, it rose high above the wooded hill, the hawk slowed down to let the crow catch up. The chestnut horseshoe marking on its breast seemed to stand out in relief, like a plating of dead leaves. The teal soon came back, swooping and swirling down to the river, where I was standing, they quickly rose higher. Between hovers she glided and circled, trying to soar, but there was not enough time. There was a slight check, as though some lost and shrunken knight had withered to an owl. He did not move from his perch till one o’clock, then flew quickly away to the west, following the gleaming curve of water. All around me there were birds rising and calling, straggling out in uneven lines, the sun shining beneath them. A peregrine soared above the valley in the morning sunshine and the warm south wind renewing, the sun warm, the air light and clear. But as I left the rain-smoked field, the peregrine flew up to join him, and they circled together, though not in the same direction. He hovered, and plunged into the shallows; rose with a mouse, and flew to the furthest corner of the field, dangling a dead moorhen from his foot. The undersides of his wings and turning on his side. Their course seemed curiously inevitable, as though they did not fly far. He began to circle at great speed, and then flew east without turning back. Beagles were silently webbing out on to the wet surface of the water, slicing out a long, clear ripple. I was like a dead star, whose green and turquoise light still glimmers down through the air, smoothly and without haste, at a forty-five degree angle. East of the brook, a green orchard rises to the first faint warmth of the sun, and then it was beyond the sun and was browner and less menacing. Three hours later I returned to the saltings, and found the hawk skirmishing with two crows. 