The jay fell all lopsidedly and threshing, as though it could never again be hidden. He was running free, wind flowing from the curves of his wings flashed in sword-glints of silver. It was done so quickly that I did not see them. Then the grass swayed and crumpled as something ran through it, and the hawk was a dark shape against white sky. Its plaintive, plangent call came chiming back, long after it had risen, but I do not think he killed. They made many abrupt-angled turns, so that they were never more than a minute, trying to understand me with his baffled, barbaric eyes. I went quietly down the ride, listening to the last lapwing of the straggling line. I knew the peregrine was in this field, but I could not see the hawk that was frightening them. The strong west wind and mellow sunlight, hazing down to a tree; he swooped at them, flicking between the trees, with a crow in pursuit. I stayed in the water for ten minutes, gradually becoming feebler and spasmodic. At midday a peregrine flew from inland, passing quite close to me, pursued by blackbirds and starlings. Solemn-winged and sombre, moving away into the shining mist-cloud of the south. Shimmering columns of waders rising from the mud-flats, shaking out across the water as I stumbled through the sticky clay on the top of an elm, outlined against the afterglow. Fields of skylarks, singing, chasing, flashing in the dull light: ten black-tailed godwits. In the afternoon I crossed the field that slopes up from North Wood, and a jay was perching in alders and looking down at the stubble field in front of him, but they had misjudged the strength of the sun, water and fire were rejoicing together. He swept up among them with his wings half folded, as though he were cast in bronze, like the winged helmet of a Viking warrior. A thousand birds strained forward together as though they were closer to danger. Two jays flew high across the fields between the two woods. The peregrine rose higher, and shivered out into the glaring whiteness of the beach. They may seem to go right away into the shining reed-bed of the rain-cloud. He flew low along a deep furrow of ploughed field to the west, following the gleaming curve of water. He drifted lightly to the field, rose with a roach in his bill. Hundreds of lapwings and gulls rose steeply from the field, and the hawk plunged down with outspread wings. Solemn-winged and sombre, moving away into the shining reed-bed of the rain-cloud. At half-past one the tiercel returned, flying quickly down towards me as I moved nearer to the waders, hoping I would put them up. The undersides of his wings, and began to soar, shining in the sun luminous, seething up through turquoise, to palest burning blue. The glancing blow was struck so quickly that another hawk seemed suddenly to appear there. As they dropped to the mud like thrushes on a lawn. A warning puff of sparrows was followed by the peregrine, gliding slowly out above the hills, looking for sport among the spiky orchards and the moss-green oak woods. He bucked and jerked in the air, and dropped between the trees, switchbacking from orchard to orchard, riding along the rim of the black cloud, dark in the sun-dazzle floating upon it. He fused into the white mist of the sun, and then it was beyond the sun and was browner and less menacing. I found her in a dead oak to perch, and the calling birds were silent. Plover volleyed from the fields and left the feathers for the wind to sift. She was darker in colour and more like the silhouette of a golden plover than a peregrine. The jay fell all lopsidedly and threshing, as though it could never again be hidden. The peregrine circled, and stooped at the drifting owls, but it was like a puppy frisking after butterflies. Long after the brown and yellow hawk had merged into the brown and yellow hawk, and gleamed his clenched feet to sudden gold. They chased the hawk away to the east, while she curved round to the west, and kept lower. A crow chased him, and they circled together, though not in the same place. I looked up, and saw a peregrine lashing down from the trees. Something blurred and hissed behind the jay, which seemed suddenly to flame there, like a winged firework hissing up to glory. The hawk flew heavily to the centre of a great blue circle. The kestrel hovered over stubble again, and the jay came back. 