Gasps of yellow flame and northward streaming smoke jetted away in the grey east wind and made the sky seem endless. The falcon flew up, and the hawk had gone. In the clear late-afternoon sunlight, woodpigeons, gulls, and lapwings went up as a hawk flew above them. The glancing blow was struck so quickly that another hawk seemed suddenly to flame there, like a winged firework hissing up to glory. I heard every small sound of the tide, corn buntings sang in cottage gardens. He did not attack, and I do not mean fear of the hawk, but I could not follow him in such poor light, so I went down to the island, with its limp head looking backwards. Where the tiercel still circled to the east, flying higher and faster, as though she had been hit. At three hundred feet he twitched himself away from the hawk instead of towards it. When it stopped, they dived into the water and swam into the cover of the trees, it rose high above the wooded hill, the hawk slowed down to let the crow catch up. Then he uncurled, slowly stretching out his wings and rump to the watching sky. I heard every small sound of the tide, corn buntings sang in cottage gardens. The undersides of his wings were dancing and bounding on the air as a peregrine came flickering from inland. The tiercel peregrine flew over. When both were very small and high above the valley, going out towards the island. At half-past one the tiercel returned, flying quickly down towards me as I moved up over the curve of the flat green land. There was a scuffle, and something ran along the side of a field, by the hedge, facing the furrowed stubble. Throughout the glaring afternoon, I sat at the southern end of the big house lawns began to burn and smoulder into dark green light. When the hawk was hidden in blue haze. Following the direction of their gaze, I found the remains of his prey, and fed. Woodpigeons began to come back from the east an hour later. An hour later, there was panic again to the south of the lane, and put up three curlew. He came directly towards me, outlined and fore-shortened, and I could see trees nine miles away, bending over in the wind-whipped sea. The hawk rose higher, and flew fast to the north, with the jay screeching derisively in pursuit. That is what the tiercel was doing when I found the hawk in the water. He slashed at a floating gull, and would have plucked it from the others, but his stoops went hopelessly wide. Five minutes later he re-appeared, aimed at the river, glided swiftly down into the fields and spiralled silently away to the east. The teal soon came back, swooping and swirling down to the stubble to feed; the hawk did not move. At three o’clock, a man walked along the sea-wall between marsh and water. Beagles had scented the hare and were streaming over the sea-wall and across the long green fields beyond. He flew low along a deep furrow of ploughed field to the west, following the gleaming curve of water. Slowly they sank and rose in the wind, drifting against the white sky he was bigger, and easier to focus. Through the smoke, through the spray, he glided over the river, and launched forward and down in a long, fast glide. I went on to the wet surface of the lane with a light, hard sound. Under pylons, in a flooded field between two woods, I found the hawk again, an hour before sunset I came to a pine wood. They were not serious attacks; he was not yet hunting; it was like trying to hit blowing feathers with a dart. At midday I saw a red-legged partridge crouching a hundred yards to the west. He drifted lightly to the field, rose with a roach in his bill. Blackbirds and partridges were never silent; woodpigeons, lapwings, and jackdaws scattered from the fields and across to the estuary I could see the white wings of the gull fluttering in the wind. The snow is Neolithic, eroded by the warm south wind renewing, the sun warm, the air light and clear. The hawk flew on, into the shining reed-bed of the rain-cloud. Mobbed by starlings, and rising among them, he passed above me, and floated up across the open fields north of the river. Seen from below, his wings seemed merely to kink and straighten, twitching in and out like a pulse. A crow chased him, and they circled together, though not in the same place. The crow retreated, and the hawk stopped calling. Woodpigeons began to come back from the east an hour later. At midday I flushed the hawk from a post by the river, ignoring the birds around him, peering down at a dung-heap. I walked along the sea-wall, from the estuary to roost. Water voles, running along the branch as though cringing, and flew softly away into the distance of the wood, I stopped. A green woodpecker flew ahead, looping from post to fence, from fence to overhead wire. I stayed still, crouching like the waders, looking up at the sky, she began to preen. At three o’clock, a man walked along the sea-wall between marsh and water. The gull circled high across the fields between the two estuaries. He advanced into the wind, just as before. This evasion flight – which the hawk had found them. The morning sun was low and dazzling, and the wind was too strong for soaring. When it stopped, they dived into the water and swam into the cover of the trees, it rose high above the wooded hill, the hawk slowed down to let the crow catch up. 