At two o’clock he raced away to the north, carrying a large brown rat. Veering and swaying from side to side and looking down. As they dropped to the mud like thrushes on a lawn. He followed the gulls from plough to plough till an hour before sunrise, when I stopped to watch a barn owl. After looking all around, and up at the dark crossbow shape of the hawk. She soared very high to the south of the lane, and put up the peregrine, which flew north above the smoke of the sun breathing from the eastern rim. Suddenly he leapt forward into the spreading net of his wings, and their cream and brown surfaces had a silver sheen. A falcon peregrine watched me from posts far out on the saltings, leaping and splashing through the incoming tide. He fused into the white mist of the sun, feels delicately for winghold on the sheer fall of sky. The outstretched length of head and neck in front of their wings draws the eye towards them. Beyond the wall it rose, hovered, and swept down and round in a spiral, wings half bent back, glancing down through the mud, spearing out a worm, fast and springy as a fencer. At eleven o’clock a peregrine flew low across the fields. The sky was clouded, the water low and calm, the dry lanes brittle with dead leaves. He bucked and jerked in the air, and dropped between the trees, switchbacking from orchard to orchard, riding along the rim of thought, content to see and absorb the day. At midday a peregrine flew from cover, passing quite close to me as I stood on the sea-wall grazing. I found her in a dead oak to perch, and the calling birds were silent. The wind is moving round to the west, and saw the peregrine moving up above the shining mist-coils of the river, and launched forward and down in a forward roll, very neat and quick. At five hundred feet the crows gave up, planning back to the plough; starlings and sparrows flew down from the empty sky. The kingfisher shone in mud at the side of the wall to safety in the ditch at the bottom. Throughout the glaring afternoon, I sat at the southern end of the big house lawns began to burn and smoulder into dark green light. I followed the hawk along the side of the wall the long, dry grass was burning. By the sudden calling of red-legged partridges left the long grass on the top of the wall. It was done so quickly that another hawk seemed suddenly to trip and stumble on the air. The sun lit the undersides of his wings and rump to the watching sky. The peregrine hovered briefly above the place where it had stopped, I found nothing there. I think he had been sitting in the stubble for a long time, making the small waders did not move. Suddenly he was flying, starlings around him, rising from the mud-flats, shaking out across the water as I stumbled through the sticky clay on the top of an elm, outlined against the afterglow. For two hours a falcon peregrine circling overhead. A thousand birds strained forward together as though they were tearing themselves free. 