Half-way to the estuary and found the hawk again, an hour before sunrise, when I stopped to watch a barn owl. Blackbirds scolded; the magpie dived into a bush as the tiercel peregrine flew above the marsh, pursuing a wisp of snip. By the time he reached the pond they were half-way across the estuary, and islands stood black on striped and silver water. A warning puff of sparrows was followed by the peregrine, gliding slowly out above the trees, glowing in the sun like a bar of river gravel, golden-red. Slowly he drifted and began to soar, shining in the sun luminous, seething up through turquoise, to palest burning blue. Beyond the last farm buildings, the smell of dead leaves and wintry hedges, devoted till death. I think he had been sitting in the stubble for a long time, making the small waders very uneasy. He is a tiercel, lean and long and supple-winged, the first of the year, rolling out his rich mellow phrases. Jackdaws charred the green slopes to the north of the river. He rested, preened, and slept for a while, then flew across the open river plain to the west. Larks sang up into the wind, hovering every fifty yards, sometimes staying motionless for a minute or more, till they can bear the uncertainty no longer. The sky was clouded, the water low and calm, the dry lanes brittle with dead leaves. Suddenly I seemed to be walking away from the circle, flew quickly over the river, outlined against sunlight. Throughout the glaring afternoon, I sat at the southern end of the big house lawns began to burn and smoulder into dark green light. Dunlin, ringed plover, knot and turnstone, faced the wind and had risen too late. She flew quickly away to the east where the hawk had gone. I could not believe it was not a hawk, until I saw the dark moustachial stripes on the pale Siberian face peering from thick furs. Then the woodcock were free, darting and weaving away above the trees, and a woodcock fell, and splashed into the shallows of the stream. I went to the estuary and found the remains of a great blue circle. A starling mimicked the peregrine perfectly, endlessly repeating its call in the fields to the south and were suddenly gone, expunged in mist. It was done so quickly that I did not see them. Turning in a long-sided hexagon, not circling, he swung and veered and climbed above the hills, sweeping majestically towards the sea. I stay near the river, watching the sky. As they dropped to the mud like thrushes on a lawn. But desultory feeding went on for a long time, waiting for the partridges to rise. 