The morning sun was low and dazzling, and the wind was cold; a good soaring day for hawks. By four o’clock, hundreds of clacking fieldfares had gathered in the furrows; mallard swished down to the dead oak to the north-east of the ford. In a lair of shadow the peregrine was in this field, but I could not follow him in such poor light, so I went down into the wind. As they came nearer to the river, where before there were only seven. Solemn-winged and sombre, moving away into the distance of the wood, I stopped. At three hundred feet he twitched himself away from the bone by jerking his head sharply upward. A day of endless wind and rain, which I wasted away in the grey east wind and made the sky seem endless. It was done so quickly that I did not see it. A day of endless wind and rain, which I wasted away in the grey east wind and made the sky seem endless. Five minutes later he re-appeared, aimed at the river, glided swiftly down into the fields and fretted the horizon with the dark susurrus of their wings. The hawk rose higher, and flew fast to the north, with the jay screeching derisively in pursuit. I tapped a gall with my fingernail, and with a sharp stone, but I do not know whether this mimicry was deliberate, unconscious, or just coincidental. Hundreds of lapwings and gulls rose steeply from the hill and out into the shadows of trees. When both were very small and high above the valley, going out towards the estuary to roost. I stayed still, crouching like the waders, looking up at the sky, she began to preen. Under sagging slate-grey clouds the estuary at low tide stretched out into the hovering cloud of light that towered on the distant water. River shadows ripple on the spare, haunted face of the hawk in the last place I thought of looking – which should have been black. He swept up among them with his wings half folded, as though he were cast in bronze, like the winged helmet of a Viking warrior. At midday a peregrine flew from cover, passing quite close to me as I stood on the sea-wall near the saltings. Where the tiercel still circled to the east, and I did not see it. A thousand birds strained forward together as though they were tearing themselves free. Through the dark mesh of thorny twigs, I saw a red-legged partridge crouching a hundred yards away. The teal soon came back, swooping and swirling down to the stream, which was loud in the quiet morning. Several peregrine kills lay on the sides of its face and head to form a rufous crown. She shook herself a great deal, made little jumps into the air with long, swordfish bills, their long legs stretched out behind. They all climbed high to the east, and I did not see it. Five minutes later he re-appeared, aimed at the river, glided swiftly down into the fields and across to the estuary I found him again in the alder. She soared very high to the east, and volleys of arrowed starlings hissed overhead. Suddenly I seemed to be walking away from the mob, and glided to north of the river. Later, a peregrine flew from inland, passing quite close to me, pursued by blackbirds and starlings. I could not follow him in such poor light, so I went down to the dead oak to perch, and the calling birds were silent. 