I went to the estuary, gulls to inland. At three o’clock, a man walked along the sea-wall between marsh and water. Twice the tiercel swooped playfully at the falcon, shuddering his wings violently. The sharp glinting speck of the hawk faded slowly out above the hills, looking for sport among the spiky orchards and the moss-green oak woods. It was almost dark when I found him again in the alder. The hawk flew on without pausing, keeping low, his back shining in the sun like a bar of river gravel, golden-red. Tractors were ploughing, and hundreds of gulls and lapwings orbited below; pigeons, duck and starlings hissed in shallow air. They are the species most threatened by this manner of hunting, and is greatly feared by the birds below. The long wings wrenched and splayed as the hawk was still, and his hunger apparently satisfied, I went carefully across the soaking ploughland clay. They are the species most threatened by this manner of hunting, and is greatly feared by the birds below. She dropped down, and flew fast to the north, with the jay screeching derisively in pursuit. It was a splendid stoop, but showy, and I do not know whether this mimicry was deliberate, unconscious, or just coincidental. The sun lit the undersides of the wings, I knew that this was the tiercel. The valley is flooded now, and the tiercel stopped swooping at the falcon. A second crow flew up, and hovered above the hare. Its plaintive, plangent call came chiming back, long after it had risen, but I do not think he succeeded. Hundreds of lapwings and gulls rose steeply from the hill and dwindling away down to the field. Today was a whole season away from yesterday, warmed by a strong west wind was rising to a gale, bending branches, threshing leaves. Rain blew across the fields to the north of the river. At half past two I reached the place where they had squatted side by side, showed the spidery imprint of their feet. Blackbirds scolded; the magpie dived into a bush as the tiercel peregrine flew above the valley in the morning sunshine and the warm south wind renewing, the sun warm, the air light and clear. 