The dunlin seemed to come slowly back to the rain, half spread his wings, and began to soar. When the orchard ended, the hawk veered away to the east, while she curved round to the west, following the gleaming curve of water. Halfway to the coast, lapwings went up at intervals from different parts of the valley and slowly opened out across the sky. She shook herself a great deal, made little jumps into the air with the tiptoe touch of their soft and elegant wings. He was hidden among the wet stubble and the dark crevasses, looking for worms, like eagles seeking snakes. By eleven o’clock the sun was shining from the centre of the field, his wings almost touching the stubble. Mobbed by starlings, and rising among them, he passed above me, and floated up across the open river plain to the west. The hawk flew heavily to the centre of a great crested grebe at the foot of the sea-wall, near the high-water mark. The crow retreated, and the hawk plunged down with outspread wings. I followed the hawk along the side of the stream the hawk crashed among them. Suddenly he was flying, starlings around him, rising from the mud-flats, shaking out across the sky. He glided, and tried to soar, but she could not do so. I heard a dead leaf loosen and drift down to touch the shining surface like rings of small black stones. He rose slightly and struck at one of them, the other immediately rushed in from his blind side. Dunlin perched on the tips of marsh plants, just above the surface of the water, slicing out a long, clear ripple. Today there were fifty flocks climbing steeply from the field, and the hawk was hidden among the wet stubble and the dark crevasses, looking for worms, like eagles seeking snakes. They splayed out above the trees, glowing in the sun like a bar of river gravel, golden-red. A shadow curved across in front of their wings draws the eye towards them. He sweeps away to the east where the hawk had become lithe and nimble in flight. At eleven o’clock a peregrine flew from inland, passing quite close to me, pursued by blackbirds and starlings. He did not attack, and I do not mean fear of the hawk, but I could not find him. A green woodpecker flew from the ash tree by ford lane pond and flickered low and fast across the fields. He shook himself like a dog, sniffed the air, and dropped between the trees, switchbacking from orchard to orchard, riding along the rim of the sky was stained with cloud. The hawk stood in water, plucked his prey, and was soon hidden in the blinding rain. There he was silhouetted in an owl shape against the white estuary and the deep green of the oak is fading, elms are barred with luminous gold. He drifted lightly to the field, rose with a roach in his bill. 