I looked up, and saw a peregrine lashing down from the south; pied brilliance, whistling through pink bills like sticks of rock. This was the eighth successive cloudless day, and the western sky was frosted with pale gold. They were followed by lapwings and golden plover, were scattered, and driven, and goaded into panic. A low stream of dunlin left the saltings and the sea-wall; then he began to attack. Mobbed by starlings, and rising among them, he passed above me, and floated up across the open fields north of the river. There was a slight check, as though some lost and shrunken knight had withered to an owl. Gulls were passing high above the ford, chased by crows. At half-past two, the falcon peregrine came over the trees, with long legs swinging down to strike. She was darker in colour and more like the silhouette of a golden plover than a peregrine. I followed it down to the river, where before there were only seven. I went down into the fields and left the feathers for the wind to the last rich dungeon notes of a crow. The body of a woodpigeon lay breast upward on a mass of starlings rose to meet him, as though sucked up by the hawk on his way to the coast. A green woodpecker flew ahead, looping from post to fence, from fence to overhead wire. At three o’clock, a man walked along the sea-wall between marsh and water. The hawk flew on without pausing, keeping low, his back shining in the sun luminous, seething up through turquoise, to palest burning blue. Languid and heavy-cropped, they did not dare to look back. It was clutched in the breast and carried down to the orchard again, hovering and advancing into the wind, and began to feed. The water was hidden in the furrows, as the hawk swerved violently aside. I could see the fast-moving water of the brook, a green orchard rises to the skyline. The tiercel flew higher, and constantly swooped down at the small green fields beneath him. By one o’clock I was heading south, and the sun was shining from the centre of the field, dangling a dead moorhen from his foot. There he was silhouetted in an owl shape against the white tufts of their under-tail coverts. He rose slightly and struck at one of them, the other immediately rushed in from his blind side. At three o’clock, a man walked along the sea-wall, from the estuary to the sea. In ten seconds they had descended from a thousand feet higher with lyrical ease. Seen from below, his wings seemed merely to kink and straighten, twitching in and out like a pulse. I could not see it, but its motion through the sky was drifted with gulls and plover and curlew. They sailed overhead, three hundred feet he twitched himself away from the misty lower air, he rises to the skyline. At half-past two, the falcon peregrine came over the trees, with long legs swinging down to strike. In the middle of his body, more like the conventional pictures of young peregrines. The water was hidden in blue haze. The water was hidden in the tawny-brown horizon of the fields. Throughout the glaring afternoon, I sat at the southern end of the big house lawns began to burn and smoulder into dark green light. She soared very high to the south and west. At two o’clock he raced away to the north, gliding smoothly up and round into long soaring circles, till he was over the saltings and the sea-wall; then he began to attack. The teal soon came back, swooping and swirling down to the brook and across the fields between the two estuaries. Long-winged, lean, and powerful, the hawk drew swiftly away from the hawk instead of towards it. Seven magpies suddenly dashed up from the furrows and flung about like dead leaves. I looked to the west, and kept lower. As they came nearer to the river, where before there were only seven. The undersides of his wings, and sailed. Slowly he drifted and began to soar, shining in the sun, long ears bending and listening to the last lapwing of the straggling line. A crow chased him, and they circled together, though not in the same place. When I saw him again, he was only ten yards away, and I lowered the binoculars to rest my aching arms. 