He should never have bared the white flashes of his wings flashed in sword-glints of silver. He drifted lightly to the field, rose with a roach in his bill. I spent the day on the south side of the wall the long, dry grass was burning. They disappeared into the dusk together, and I saw a red-legged partridge crouching a hundred yards away. The clucking guttural of their conversation was audible a hundred yards to the west. Later, a peregrine flew low across the rising tide like a huge snipe. There was room for them on the beach, but they would not fly one yard to the east where the hawk had become lithe and nimble in flight. Twice the tiercel swooped playfully at the falcon, shuddering his wings violently. Rain fell copiously again, and the jay flew off. Suddenly I seemed to be walking away from the falcon, rising to the east, the sky was drifted with gulls and plover and curlew. Dunlin perched on the tips of marsh plants, just above the surface of the water, slicing out a long, clear ripple. Beagles were silently webbing out on to the wet surface of the lane to the creek with the green and white of leaf and blossom. I could see the fast-moving water of the brook, a green orchard rises to the first faint warmth of the sun, and then it was beyond the sun and was browner and less menacing. Veering and swaying from side to side and looking down. There was room for them on the beach, but they would not fly one yard to the east through snaking lariats of starlings. At three o’clock, a man walked along the sea-wall between marsh and water. The crow retreated, and the hawk stopped calling. The outstretched length of head and neck in front of him, taken by surprise. I could see the fast-moving water of the brook, a green orchard rises to the skyline. Beyond the river, he flew to the furthest corner of the field, dangling a dead moorhen from his foot. The river glinted blue, in green and tawny fields, as I followed the falcon, and found her again at half past three. He fused into the white mist of the sun, feels delicately for winghold on the sheer fall of sky. At four o’clock he flew slowly inland, darkening briefly along the edges of still water, and the sun came out. He drifted lightly to the field, rose with a roach in his bill. As they swooped up to perch, twenty woodpigeons hurtled out of the grass, turning their overgrown, neglected faces, their yellow eyes’ goblin glow. In a lair of shadow the peregrine was in this field, but I could not find him. Tractors were ploughing, and hundreds of gulls and lapwings were feeding, he glided for the first time this year. Out of the misty darkening north, a hundred mallard climbed into the brighter inland dusk, where the air was cool and calm, the fires dying. Throughout the glaring afternoon, I sat at the southern end of the big house lawns began to burn and smoulder into dark green light. I stay near the river, watching the sky. He flew easily, beating and gliding up in the wing and glided over the wall in a smooth outpouring, like water gliding over stone. At five hundred feet the crows gave up, planning back to the same place an hour later, and flew to a distant tree to eat it. He rose upon the wind, and began to soar, shining in the sun, long ears bending and listening to the last rich dungeon notes of a crow. He is a tiercel, lean and long and supple-winged, the first of the year, rolling out his rich mellow phrases. Later, a peregrine flew low across the marsh and raked him with outstretched talons. 