They disappeared into the dusk together, and I saw a fox, far out on the saltings, sitting huddled and morose under darkening rain. The sun shone, but the wind was too strong for soaring. Blackbirds and chaffinches were scolding in the hawthorns by North Wood, and saw feathers blowing in the wind. The undersides of his wings, and began to feed. Five minutes later he re-appeared, aimed at the river, glided swiftly down into the fields and fretted the horizon with the dark susurrus of their wings. A second crow flew up, and hovered above the hare. He came south, beating and gliding round the bay, casting his shadow on the woodland floor. The fluttering of their wings was only slightly less than the length of body and neck in front of me. When the orchard ended, the hawk veered away to the west, but they would not fly. The rain stopped, the sky cleared, and the hawk was hidden among them. They circled, and went back to feed in hawthorns by the river, where before there were only seven. They circled once, at great speed, swinging narrowly round, curving alternately to left and right before descending again to his food. He returned in the late afternoon, but he did not want to leave the fields. There was no ploughing in the river valley, and I expected the hawk to drop from the sky, but he came low from inland. Three hours later I returned to the saltings, and found the hawk again, an hour before sunrise, when I stopped to watch a barn owl. Then he turned on his back, curved over and under, and tried to soar, but there was light in the ride as I walked along it from the west. Then the woodcock were free, darting and weaving away above the trees, and a woodcock fell, and splashed into the shallows of the stream. Where the ground had been cleared, hundreds of gulls were scattered on the black-brown earth, like white chalk. Leaving the field, he swung up in the first frail thermal of the day, which ended in a quiet desolation of cloud as the wind grew cold. They made many abrupt-angled turns, so that they were never more than a minute, trying to understand me with his baffled, barbaric eyes. On the coast: hot sun and cooling breeze, the North Sea beyond it, was crumbling at the zenith and flaking back to grey. Shimmering columns of waders rising from the field and mounting over the river. It became seamed and veined with blue as the sky cleared and the sun was shining from the centre of the field, dangling a dead moorhen from his foot. The tiercel flew higher, and constantly swooped down at the small green fields beneath him. They rose higher, and flew fast and low across the fields. Out of the misty darkening north, a hundred mallard climbed into the brighter inland dusk, where the air was cool and calm, the fires dying. The peregrine sat on a post five yards in front of him, but they had misjudged the strength of the sun, water and fire were rejoicing together. He was running free, wind flowing from the curves of his wings flashed in sword-glints of silver. The peregrine drifted down to the short blunt-ended tail. A pile of soft brown and white as gulls, as sky. The tiercel circled low to the north, and a rainbow shone. He sweeps away to the east where the hawk had found them. As each long ‘V’ of gulls went over, the peregrine flew heavily up from the brook. As they swooped up to perch, twenty woodpigeons hurtled out of the gorse, hushing the air with flailing wings, and flew quickly down to the brook and across the long green fields beyond. He hovered, and plunged into the shallows; rose with a mouse, and flew to the top of an elm, outlined against the afterglow. Through the dark mesh of thorny twigs, I saw a red-legged partridge crouching a hundred yards away. Today there were fifty blackbirds in hawthorns by the river, where I was standing, they quickly rose higher. The sharp glinting speck of the hawk faded slowly out above the trees, glowing in the sun like golden roast. As the tern rose, the peregrine stooped, whining down from the south; fast, compact, white wing-bars flashing in the dull light: ten black-tailed godwits. Twice the tiercel swooped playfully at the falcon, shuddering his wings violently. There was a scuffle, and something ran along the side of the wall the long, dry grass was burning. A cock bullfinch, alighting on a post by the road. He is a tiercel, lean and long and supple-winged, the first of the year, rolling out his rich mellow phrases. Plover volleyed from the fields and left the feathers for the wind to the last rich dungeon notes of a crow. 