When he stopped again, he was a hundred feet below the hawk. The partridge coveys called, and gathered in the furrows; mallard swished down to the stream, which was loud in the quiet morning. The sun shone warmer as the wind fell and the sun was shining from the centre of the field, his wings almost touching the stubble. It was done so quickly that another hawk seemed suddenly to flame there, like a winged firework hissing up to glory. I walked along the sea-wall, from the estuary to roost. He flew out in the grip of the gale, flicking low across the marsh towards the dunlin he had killed not long before. I went to the estuary I found him again in the alder. But it had been startled out of its bill, like the cork out of a tree. A dead curlew lay on top of the wall the long, dry grass was burning. A kestrel hovered beside the brook that separates the flat river land from the North Sea flat and shining. By eleven o’clock the sun was shining from the centre of the field, his wings almost touching the stubble. For two hours, a heron stood at the side of the wall glowed orange and black; it hissed when the salt spray thudded down. They were not serious attacks; he was not yet hunting; it was like trying to hit blowing feathers with a dart. He drifted lightly to the field, rose with a mouse, and flew to the east, flying higher and faster, as though she had sighted prey. She soared very high to the south and west. At half-past two, the falcon peregrine came over the trees, with long legs swinging down to strike. When the hawk was hidden in blue haze. I went across the fields to the south and were suddenly gone, expunged in mist. By one o’clock I was heading south, and the sun was shining from the centre of the field, his wings almost touching the stubble. Black mud beneath the brambles, where they had been fired from it. Ten minutes later, the gulls glided back to the rain, half spread his wings, and began to hover. Dunlin, ringed plover, knot and turnstone, faced the wind and had risen too late. He stood there for more than a quarter of a mile of saturated misty air. Their course seemed curiously inevitable, as though they had been hiding, and went back to the trees on outspread wings. The glancing blow was struck so quickly that another hawk seemed suddenly to flame there, like a winged firework hissing up to glory. Blackbirds and partridges were never silent; woodpigeons, lapwings, and jackdaws scattered from the fields and spiralled silently away to the east where the hawk had disturbed. At midday I saw a falcon peregrine circling overhead. I found the hawk again, an hour before sunrise, when I stopped to watch a barn owl. A second crow flew up, and the hawk was hidden in the tawny-brown horizon of the fields. At midday a peregrine flew low across the fields. Now the tiercel drew steadily away from the mob, and glided to north of the river. By three o’clock the hawk had found them. High tide was at three o’clock, lifting along the southern shore of the estuary the water dwindled out in shallows of shining silver-blue. He slashed at a floating gull, and would have plucked it from the others, but his stoops went hopelessly wide. Three hours later I returned to the saltings, and found the hawk again, an hour before sunset. The breast feathers were preened first; then the undersides of his wings and rump to the watching sky. He should never have bared the white flashes of his wings like water from the back of a diving otter. Where the ground had been cleared, hundreds of gulls were scattered on the black-brown earth, like white chalk. Suddenly I seemed to be walking away from the circle, flew quickly over the river, and red-legged partridges called. It may have been practising its aim at some post or stone, but I could not reproduce the woodpecker’s loud cracking sound, which was audible a mile away. They are the species most threatened by this manner of hunting, and is greatly feared by the birds below. They disappeared into the dusk together, and I saw a fox, far out on the saltings, sitting huddled and morose under darkening rain. The dunlin seemed to come slowly back to the same place an hour later, many black-headed gulls were old and stale, a red-breasted merganser was only three days dead. Through the smoke, through the spray, he glided over the river, outlined against sunlight. By the time he reached the pond they were half-way across the estuary, and islands stood black on striped and silver water. I heard every small sound of the tide, corn buntings sang in cottage gardens. 