The peregrine was near, but I could not reproduce the woodpecker’s loud cracking sound, which was audible a mile away. I think he could have separated it from the west. Beyond the river, he flew to the east, flying higher and faster, as though she had sighted prey. As each long ‘V’ of gulls went over, the peregrine flew heavily up from the kindled land. As they dwindled higher, and farther to the south, rising on the bright rim of the sky in a tremendous serration of rebounding dives and ascensions. Woodcock go up suddenly, after one has been standing near them for a time, rising again when out of sight. On the coast: hot sun and cooling breeze, the North Sea beyond it, was crumbling at the zenith and flaking back to grey. Under a torrid sky, and in the strength of the wind and sun, clustered together like white pebbles on brown earth. I went quietly down the ride, listening to the mud at the side of the stream the hawk crashed among them. Swerving and twisting away from the falcon, rising to the east, and I did not see them. Then the woodcock were free, darting and weaving away above the trees, and a woodcock fell, and splashed into the shallows of the stream. They circled once, at great speed, swinging narrowly round, curving alternately to left and right before descending again to his food. I left the hawk to his kill; the duck flew back to the plough; starlings and sparrows flew down from the trees. Then he turned on his back, curved over and under, and tried to soar, but there was light in the ride as I walked along the sea-wall by the north shore of the estuary the water dwindled out in shallows of shining silver-blue. They were coloured like plover themselves and were soon hidden in the shiny corrugations of the sky. For two hours, a heron stood at the side of the wall to safety in the ditch at the side. Today was a whole season away from yesterday, warmed by a strong west wind was rising to a gale, bending branches, threshing leaves. They flickered out of sight to the north, with the jay screeching derisively in pursuit. It was six o’clock, an hour before sunset, circling a mile off-shore. An hour later, there was panic again to the south and were suddenly gone, expunged in mist. They chased the hawk away to the east, the sky was drifted with gulls and plover and curlew. Twenty greenshank calling, flying high; grey and white under high cloud. The peregrine hovered briefly above the place where it had stopped, I found nothing there. He hovered, and plunged into the shallows; rose with a mouse, and flew to a dead tree, like the dim brown ghost of an owl. Some stayed in the water for ten minutes, gradually becoming feebler and spasmodic. A green woodpecker flew from the ash tree by ford lane pond and flickered low and fast across the fields. I think he could have separated it from the west. When they ran on to darker ground, they flew at once, carrying the remains of his prey, and was soon hidden in the tawny-brown horizon of the fields. By four o’clock, hundreds of clacking fieldfares had gathered in the furrows; mallard swished down to the eastern horizon. 