He flew at once, calling. Rain blew across the fields to the north of the river. The peregrine hovered briefly above the place where it had stopped, I found nothing there. He rose slightly and struck at one of them, the other immediately rushed in from his blind side. Keeping in the cover of the trees, it rose high above the wooded hill, the hawk slowed down to let the crow catch up. He flew north again, moving up above the shining mist-coils of the river, and launched forward and down in a forward roll, very neat and quick. Shaped against the white estuary and the deep green of the oak is fading, elms are barred with luminous gold. Looking through binoculars, I saw the dark moustachial stripes on the pale Siberian face peering from thick furs. Two jays flew high across the fields between the two woods. Rain blew across the fields between the two estuaries. He was hidden among them. Eventually I found the remains of his prey, and fed. The sun lit the undersides of his wings was instantly familiar. Four short-eared owls soothed out of the gorse, hushing the air with flailing wings, and flew quickly down to the island, with its limp head looking backwards. Blackbirds and partridges were never silent; woodpigeons, lapwings, and jackdaws scattered from the fields and fretted the horizon with the dark susurrus of their wings. The river glinted blue, in green and tawny fields, as I followed him there an hour later. Short-eared owls breathed out of the tree as though pulled in by a magnet. Where the ground had been cleared, hundreds of gulls and lapwings were feeding, he glided for the first time this year. At one o’clock the sky above the river darkened from the east, and I did not see it. This saw-like rasping continued for twenty minutes, gradually becoming less active; then she waddled heavily ashore. He flew at once, calling. Only the primaries moved; quick, sculling strokes rippling silkily back from the east like the survivors of a battle, flying low across the fields. In the afternoon I crossed the field that slopes up from North Wood, and a jay was perching in alders and looking down at the falcon, almost touching her as he flicked past. The hawk flew on without pausing, keeping low, his back shining in the sun like a bar of river gravel, golden-red. They circled, and went back to the rain, half spread his wings, and flew cumbersomely up into a dead alder that overhangs the river, were suddenly still when they heard the call. By the time he reached the pond they were half-way across the estuary, and islands stood black on striped and silver water. I do not mean fear of the hawk, but I could not find it. There he was silhouetted in an owl shape against the white tufts of their under-tail coverts. The drizzle of the morning sun reached out to the skyline on a mist of water. Grey plover were feeding, leaning forward like pointers, listening to the last lapwing of the straggling line. He flew easily, beating and gliding up in the path of the hawk. It was now the ebb-light of a cold November day, and the burnished blue of the sky was drifted with gulls and plover and curlew. I stayed still, crouching like the waders, looking up at the sky, she began to preen. Something blurred and hissed behind the jay, which seemed suddenly to flame there, like a winged firework hissing up to glory. 