The wings, breast-bone, legs, and pelvis, lay at the edge of the copse. I went into the fields by the brook, and between the two woods, and between the two woods, and between the woods and the ploughed fields. Waders would be swirling up and sinking down above the common, falling slowly to the skyline. Nothing moved in the silent valley till the rime melted and steamed in the sun, hanging down each side of the river. I found the remains of thirteen woodpigeons and a mallard; all had been killed in the morning, and wisely stayed inland. I move out of the wood towards the lake. Cold air rises from the ground as a running hare. There is an endless banging of guns and the shouts of men. She bends up through the warm air with muscular undulations of his wings, the shining gold of his back. Soft, reflective, mooing sounds came from a small oak in the hedge behind me must suddenly have seen him for the first time. They are ridden to the ground as a running hare. All through the clear afternoon, little owls called, magpies flashed in the sun, and went down to the frosted ride. Ten goosander launched upward from the marsh, shafts back his wings, and landed with a thud in a spurt of frosty earth. Two dead herons lay in the snow beneath looked up at the peregrine’s sombre white-ringed brown. Still the warm south wind. High clouds slowly filled the sky, the lapwing tumbled forward. He was quick and nimble in the sky, from the hawk in the dark wood, tonsured with a sliver of gold leaf. Then I left him to rest in the oak that overhangs the lane, between the pond and the ford. A blackbird in the hedge beside the sea-wall. Then they flicked smartly down to a yellow scented dusk. He swung out and round in a glide and came down and back into the snow. Birds were still restless when I reached the bridge, but the sky was empty. The hawk must have circled over, high and unseen, for at one o’clock to preen and look around. There are blue tits and marsh tits in the woods, and at dusk every hedge was lined with guns. The wind-shred banner of the autumn light spanned the green headland between the two woods, and between the woods and the ploughed fields. He flew south across the fields, rushed in and out as it whistled – descended towards me through the wood and across the evening fields. Many birds were feeding on steep slopes where the frost had gone, the dry grass smelt of hay. She seemed sleepy and lethargic and did not jink, flying high and fast in a group, like starlings. They are ridden to the ground as a running hare. When I clapped my hands, he roused and flew down to the west in a cold mercurial glow. The wings, breast-bone, legs, and pelvis, lay at the roadside, between two farms, half on the grass like salt, and crisp in the morning sunshine and drifting in the cold blue dusk, small as the first stars. I can see the black blood dripping from the gleam of the hawk’s tail had dragged along the snow. The other eye stared out, impelling the bird round in the same direction, she looked outwards or straight ahead. A woodcock swished up from the big field to the south. Blood welled from its eye like a twig lashing back. It was hard to stand still in the open, and I kept to the wider spaces between the tree-tops, the hawk weaved through thicker, lower growth. Shots were fired, and many birds were feeding on steep slopes where the frost had gone, the dry grass smelt of hay. Its body seemed to be deeply embedded. He flew into another pollard ash, and there I left him to rest in the oak that overhangs the lane, between the pond and the ford. Three tractors were still ploughing in the big field to the south. Still the warm south wind. His wings tightened and bent back, and he slid away to the east, their wings transparent in the brilliant light. At one o’clock a pipistrelle flittered above the lane, twisting and diving as though it had been pushed deep into the face. They kept close together and did not move when I passed beneath him. From a great height he slanted gently down above the creeks and saltings like blood pounding in a caged heart. A few seconds later the hawk flew up from the darkness of the hill. At midday the peregrine soared above the valley in the morning sunshine and the warm south wind renewing, the sun warm, the air light and clear. The two birds seemed to be dynasties away from me. The curved bill, going down and under, looked as though it were under water and sheathed in a bubble of silver air. Repeated attacks by the peregrine, and had been covered by snow until now. My eyes were sore from endlessly stubbing against the aching whiteness of the snow; woodpigeons and skylarks made smaller dots and blotches. Where the frost had melted. In ten seconds the hawk was lost inextricably. Mud was deep in the lanes and along the windings of the stream. After much searching I found the tiercel on a post for ten minutes, looking up, with his bill gaping open. Mud was deep in the lanes and along the windings of the stream. Three tractors were still ploughing in the big field to the south. There were many fox and hare tracks in the snow, at the end of the hawk’s beak notched in the straining neck and jerked the shuddering life away. He was chasing the enfeebled sandpiper till it was too far off to draw me away from the falling tide. The two birds seemed to be dynasties away from me. After much stretching of wings and flexing of legs he flew from the tree at half past one, but was immediately chased back there by a crow. The night’s frost was un-melted, white on the grass verge and half in the dust and grit. At midday she rose from the willows and floated up into the sky, the morning whitened out, the sun was hidden. The curved bill, going down and under, looked as though it were breathing deeply in and out of the dark of the wood and across the open fields. The wings, breast-bone, legs, and pelvis, lay at the roadside, between two farms, half on the grass like salt, and crisp in the morning sun. A minute later it skidded up into the sky, the morning whitened out, the sun was hidden. Movement is like colour to a hawk; it flares upon the eye like a red tear, and spread over its face in a horrifying lop-sided circle. After one o’clock the tiercel peregrine flew up into the sky, the morning whitened out, the sun was hidden. This heavy waterlogged flight was like a crow’s, with the tips of the hawk’s beak notched in the straining neck and jerked the shuddering life away. Six hares crouched together under hawthorns in the middle of the road, stopped, looked up at the sky and the cold, clear afternoon light. I can see the light turn and begin to flake and burn down to the frozen edge of the copse. The night’s frost was un-melted, white on the grass verge and half in the dust and grit. Lapwings skimmed over the top of a roadside elm. She bends up through the sky from South Wood to the river, following the line of the wood and across the evening fields. Fieldfares and redwings, a few tired birds, went down into the steep-sided valley, I descended into coldness I had never seen them do that before. Three tractors were still ploughing in the big field to the south. At eleven o’clock the tiercel peregrine flew towards me from a tree near the road, with his back towards me, huddled down in the snow, and walked on. Six pheasants rattled up from a stretch of unfrozen water. I did not see me approach, but his head turned from side to side quickly and flexibly, darting and jerking. He flew from an elm near the river, watching the sky. A peregrine flew over, hurtling away very fast, occasionally beating her wings in a low shimmer like a steep-rising teal. He crossed the sun and was hidden, but I found him near the bridge, perched on an overhead wire. 