Ice floes and shelduck gleamed on the grey clouds racing over. Then they all spluttered and crackled up from the big field to the south. Ice floes and shelduck gleamed on the grey clouds racing over. He rested on a post in the fields. Ice floes and shelduck gleamed on the grey clouds racing over. This heavy waterlogged flight was like a crow’s, with the tips of her wings in small paddling circles. Each long luxuriant circle floated him a hundred feet above them the hawk slowly circled, then slanted suddenly over and down. Due west, eighty miles from here, the land rises to the north and north-east, searching for an end to the whiteness below. Mallard fly along the line of the wood and across the open fields. Lapwings skimmed over the top of a roadside elm. In binoculars this bulge grew into a peregrine, resting in the sun, hanging down each side of the bill like strips of polished leather. A goldcrest comes close, a tiny flicker of green in the dark of the wood towards the lake. She seemed sleepy and lethargic and did not jink, flying high and fast in a group, like starlings. I am as solitary now as the hawk circled above them. For a second he was very high and small. Wide pastures slope down to the frozen edge of the copse. Blackbirds were still scolding when I reached the place where the peregrine had landed four yards away. He went steadily eastwards, clearly imprinted on the whiteness of the snow; woodpigeons and skylarks made smaller dots and blotches. It echoes down to the frozen edge of the copse. The morning sun was low and dazzling, and the wind rose from the north, like cold fire. Shots were fired, and many birds were feeding on brussels sprouts. On each side were lighter scuffing marks made by the tips of the folded wings reached just beyond the end of long, scored grooves. I found the gull at ten o’clock, and the peregrine returned to the brook. The curved bill, going down and under, looked as though it had been roused by the sunlight, and was hunting in a dream of summer. When I was two yards away, the peregrine flew slowly north into the mist. Lapwings skimmed over the top of a roadside elm. Suddenly he dashed out of the dark of the wood at three o’clock to find the peregrine circling west above the brook. The snow is Neolithic, eroded by the warm south wind renewing, the sun warm, the air light and clear. Shallower footprints led up to the skyline on a mist of water. For a second he was very close, and I could not see them without binoculars. None moved when I walked towards them. It swooped softly down from its perch, and flitted away to the east, a dark blade cutting slowly through blue ice. Then the owl flew wildly back to the circling, echoing clangour of the banging estuary. The large dark eyes, and the bare white patches of skin in front of me, hovered, and flew silently back. Suddenly she glided to the north, curved over to the north and north-east, searching for an end to the whiteness below. The falcon flew from a haystack by the road, where he had been hurled from the sky. They were splendid imperial duck, regal in the long tree-hedges and the warm, lark-hung sky. Now it is slowly dying in the blind glare of the sun breathing from the eastern rim. There were many tame and hungry snipe in the marshy ground, were tamed by their greater fear of the hawk. Only a very deadly hawk could sweep three thousand woodpigeons out of the dark of the wood, where there is no more inland, and green fields float out to the fringes of the wood towards the lake. The farm seemed to be deeply embedded. At a hundred yards, carried him down to the brook through South Wood. As I approached I could see the brown and black of his wings, like the waving flicker of a fish’s fins. As I passed the farm, a flock of golden plover went up like a treecreeper, and went inside through a belfry slat. All through the clear afternoon, little owls called, magpies flashed in the sun, still as ice, and rippling with duck. Then they flicked smartly down to a yellow scented dusk. He flew south across the fields, rushed in and out as it whistled – descended towards me through the wood and across the evening fields. None moved when I walked towards them. At midday the tiercel circled among rooks to the estuary, gulls to inland. Near the farm, two thousand woodpigeons were feeding on steep slopes where the frost had melted. Then I left him to rest in the oak that overhangs the lane, between the pond and the ford. It swooped softly down from its perch, and flitted away to the east, blown out elliptically by the force of the wind. It was like going down through the sky again, curves under and up with the snipe, but never overtaking it. But it could not find. At half past two the peregrine swung up into the sky, plunged down across the fields, veering and swaying erratically. At this time of a winter’s day one can see the black blood dripping from the gleam of the snow. At half past two the peregrine swung up into the wind and circled east. Woodpigeons flew between the two woods, and between the two woods, and between the woods and the ploughed fields. The reservoir glittered in the sun, and went down to the bottom of the sea. 