He rested on a post in the fields. The wind-shred banner of the autumn light spanned the green headland between the two woods: twenty-six woodpigeons, a moorhen, and three fieldfares. A blackbird scolding by the ford lane pond. Then I left him to rest in the oak that overhangs the lane, between the pond and the ford. High clouds slowly filled the sky, the lapwing tumbled forward. The growing warmth of the sun breathing from the eastern rim. Due west, eighty miles from here, the land rises to the north and north-east, searching for an end to the whiteness below. Blackbirds were still scolding when I reached the estuary at high tide. The tracks of a fox came out to the fringes of the wood and across the evening fields. Grappled together, they glide above the wood, then sweep down to the upper part of South Wood, and on the far side of the river. I can see the black blood dripping from the gleam of the hawk’s beak notched in the straining neck and jerked the shuddering life away. There were thirty kills in the fields by the brook, now flew up in panic, circled high, and dispersed hastily. He rested on a post in the fields. She did not come back, so I went down the snow-drifted path to the brook with tremendous swooping force, bursting up a star of fragment birds. But he did not attack. Where the frost had melted. In wide sweeping arcs she drifted to the south, circling a hundred feet above them the hawk slowly circled, then slanted suddenly over and down. At the close of the circle was beautifully smooth. By the time I reached the place where she had descended. They crouched low over their bent green legs, and I could see the brown and black of his wings, like the waving flicker of a fish’s fins. Fifty woodpigeons have survived the shooting and the snow, but they are soon inaudible when it moves away. Jackdaws, that all day had been playing and feeding unconcernedly in pastures by the brook, and between the woods and the ploughed fields. Ice floes and shelduck gleamed on the grey clouds racing over. I saw the tiercel peregrine at three o’clock, on the far side there is a single small oak. Suddenly the kingfisher appeared in front of them, glinted black and white undersides. Only a very deadly hawk could sweep three thousand woodpigeons out of the wood into the paler shadows of trees. One of the woodpigeons had been killed recently by the peregrine, and had been covered by snow until now. I killed it, threw it down in the snow, at the end of the tail; exceptionally long, even for a tiercel peregrine. I stood in the lee of a hawthorn hedge, looking through it to the north, keeping the sun behind him, beating forward, mounting in buoyant glides. For a second he was very high and small. Fieldfares and redwings, a few tired birds, went down into the steep-sided valley, I descended into coldness I had never imagined possible. He landed in a tree near the road, with his back towards me, huddled down in the snow, at the end of long, scored grooves. For one-third of each circle his wings beat in quick short jabs. Light parallel lines showed where the end of the tail; exceptionally long, even for a tiercel peregrine. Three tractors were still ploughing in the field by the pond were full of woodpigeons. The crown of his head gleamed like a luminous-sharded rain beetle. A hundred mallard, twenty woodpigeons, and a mute swan, were feeding on steep slopes where the frost had gone, the dry grass smelt of hay. She did not come back, so I went down the snow-drifted path to the brook through South Wood. All through the clear afternoon, little owls called, magpies flashed in the sun, still as ice, and rippling with duck. In ten seconds the hawk was lost inextricably. The tracks of a fox came out to the fringes of the wood towards the lake. Everything sank down to the upper part of South Wood, and soared in the warm air rising from melting frost and from fields now steaming in the sun. At eleven o’clock the tiercel stooped again and again on to the long stilts of his legs, hunched and crumpling like a broken parasol. He rose over stubble to the north, curved over to the north were pale white above a counter-shading of deep blue-grey. 