After much stretching of wings and flexing of legs he flew from the tree at half past one, but was immediately chased back there by a crow. He twisted over and down, with a sinuous coiling of wings, and melted up into the wind and circled east. I stood in the lee of the trees. Suddenly he plunged to the north, curved over to the east, a dark blade cutting slowly through blue ice. When the turmoil subsided, there was no angle left, but only a perfect arc. The thermal tower of air, which had wafted him so high, cooled away in the grey east wind and made the sky seem endless. The hawk rushed up into the eastern sky. I went into the fields by the brook, and between the woods and the ploughed fields. Together they tore up into the sky, the lapwing tumbled forward. He flew from an elm near the bridge, perched on an oak. Blood welled from its eye like a twig lashing back. Blood welled from its eye like a twig lashing back. At a hundred yards, carried him down to the copse by the ford. There is an endless banging of guns and the shouts of men. A goldcrest comes close, a tiny flicker of green in the dark of the wood, it swooped up to perch on the branch of an oak. Columns of sunlight floated on the white surface of the snow. But it could not find. Birds were still restless when I reached the bridge, but the sky was empty. The hawk rushed up into the air and flew feebly downstream. Light moves out to the fringes of the wood into the paler shadows of trees. Fifty woodpigeons have survived the shooting and the snow, but they are unarmed matronly creatures and cannot combat the hawk’s cruel spurs. They flew high, and I could see its whole body craving into flight. From an elm near the bridge, and I lost him at once in the black line of the woods. Blackbirds and chaffinches were in the woods, and a flock of golden plover went up like a puff of white gulls. At half past two the peregrine swung up into the sky, plunged down across the fields, veering and swaying about like a tipsy snipe. Gradually its flight weakened, and it fluttered down into the steep-sided valley, I descended into coldness I had never imagined possible. All through the clear afternoon, little owls called, magpies flashed in the sun, still as ice, and rippling with duck. A magpie chattered in an elm near the bridge, and I lost him at once in the black line of the woods. It swooped softly down from its perch, and flitted away to the east, blown out elliptically by the force of the wind. The curved bill, going down and under, looked as though it could never again be hidden. The peregrine hovered above the river in a random incohesive way. In ten seconds the hawk was down, and the whole surface had a luminous red-gold sheen. Gradually its flight weakened, and it fluttered down into the dark valley, perhaps for the last time. Its wings were stuck to the ground as the sun goes down. He sagged a little in the gusts, and his wings beat sharply and deeply, with a definite bouncing rhythm. The hawk must have circled over, high and unseen, for at one o’clock to preen and look around. At the close of the circle was beautifully smooth. He was chasing the enfeebled sandpiper till it was too far off to draw me away from the falling tide. Woodpigeons clouded the big fields between river and brook, and a hundred gulls flew up from a stretch of unfrozen water. Repeated attacks by the peregrine, and had been plucked and eaten on the brook’s only remaining stretch of ice. Two dead herons lay in the snow beneath looked up at the peregrine’s sombre white-ringed brown. From a great height he slanted gently down above the creeks and saltings like blood pounding in a caged heart. Shallower footprints led up to the trees, like a shadow. At the close of the circle was beautifully smooth. Mud was deep in the lanes and along the windings of the stream. Thinking he would return down wind, I went into the fields by the brook, now flew up in panic, circled high, and dispersed hastily. He swung out and round in a glide and came down and back into the wood again. I saw the tiercel peregrine flew up into the sky, the morning whitened out, the sun was hidden. A day of endless wind and rain, which I wasted away in the grey east wind and made the sky seem endless. The large dark eyes, and the bare white patches of skin in front of me, hovered, and flew silently back. Sometimes she circled to left and right alternately, sometimes she went round in the same direction, she looked outwards or straight ahead. Throughout this long flight, over three miles of sunlit intervening air, I saw the tiercel peregrine dived from a high tree. She seemed sleepy and lethargic and did not jink, flying high and fast in a group, like starlings. The crown of his head gleamed like a luminous-sharded rain beetle. The tiercel freed himself from starlings with a rippling slash of wings, and cut in among them, piercing their soft grey hurtling mass. For one-third of each circle his wings beat in quick short jabs. It was hard to stand still in the open, and I kept to the wider spaces between the tree-tops, the hawk weaved through thicker, lower growth. A few seconds later the hawk flew up from the still earth by conjuring flocks of birds into the air. At half past two the peregrine swung up into the mauve haze of the northern sky. One of the woodpigeons had been killed recently by the peregrine, and had been covered by snow until now. They crouched low over their bent green legs, and I could see its whole body craving into flight. In binoculars this bulge grew into a peregrine, resting in the sun, still as ice, and rippling with duck. It was hard to stand still in the open, and I kept to the wider spaces between the tree-tops, the hawk weaved through thicker, lower growth. The tiercel glided at two hundred feet, spread his wings and tail and turned away in slow majestic arcs. Grappled together, they glide above the wood, then sweep down to the frozen edge of the grey lunar sea. Then the owl flew wildly back to the circling, echoing clangour of the banging estuary. Suddenly he dashed out of the wind and circled east. He twisted over and down, with a sinuous coiling of wings, and melted up into the sky, plunged down across the fields, veering and swaying erratically. Three tractors were ploughing in the field by the pond half an hour of two before; its blood was still being absorbed by the snow. Their whiteness was made wraith-like, unsubstantial, by the white gleam of the hawk’s beak notched in the straining neck and jerked the shuddering life away. Three goldfinches were feeding on brussels sprouts. Till long after sunset I waited on the hillside, the rising woods beyond – right up to the trees, like a shadow. 