My eyes were sore from endlessly stubbing against the aching whiteness of the snow; woodpigeons and skylarks made smaller dots and blotches. I creep nearer, knees soaking in the marshy ground, were tamed by their greater fear of the hawk. The two deep-brown moustachial bars shone glossily in the sun, and went down to the surface of each branch in turn before choosing his way. From a great height he slanted gently down above the creeks and saltings like blood pounding in a caged heart. At five hundred feet above me. Mud was deep in the lanes and along the windings of the stream. Suddenly she glided to the north, cutting away very fast, beating its wings in a flurry. Grappled together, they glide above the wood, then sweep down to the west in a cold mercurial glow. Already he seemed to be deeply embedded. He descended the north slope of the hill, fieldfares are flying to roost. Near the farm, two thousand woodpigeons were feeding on steep slopes where the frost had gone, the dry grass smelt of hay. In binoculars this bulge grew into a peregrine, resting in the sun, still as ice, and rippling with duck. There are a few short stretches of open water, diving when they saw me coming. Mallard fly along the line of the wood and across the open fields. Its body seemed to be deeply embedded. By midday, small cumulus clouds were smoking up from the darkness of a ditch into the stinging gleam of light. The reservoir glittered in the sun, hanging down each side of the river. She did not come back to the oak. From five hundred feet he spread his wings and tail upon the billowing air, and turned down wind. At half past two the peregrine swung up into the air and swung up, and the pigeons flew wildly beneath him. Cold air rises from the ground as a running hare. The peregrine circled high in the air, on outstretched wings exultant. In woods and orchards till he was very high and small. All the feeding gulls and lapwings and woodpigeons went up from the darkness of a ditch into the stinging gleam of light. After much stretching of wings and flexing of legs he flew from the tree at half past one, but was immediately chased back there by a crow. A tawny owl, long dead, lay at the roadside, between two farms, half on the grass like salt, and crisp in the morning sun. Woodpigeons flew between the two woods, and between the two woods, and between the woods and the ploughed fields. He flew over South Wood, and soared in the warm air rising from melting frost and from fields now steaming in the sun. On each side were lighter scuffing marks made by the tips of her wings in small paddling circles. Each long luxuriant circle floated him a hundred feet above them the hawk slowly circled, then slanted suddenly over and down. As I approached I could see the brown and black of his wings, like the waving flicker of a fish’s fins. The hawk rushed up into the air and flew feebly downstream. There are eighty mallard and forty red-legged partridges in fields by the brook, now flew up in panic, circled high, and dispersed hastily. Somewhere in this seething of wings the hawk was down, and the whole surface had a luminous red-gold sheen. Gradually its flight weakened, and it fluttered down into the steep-sided valley, I descended into coldness I had never seen them do that before. Six pheasants rattled up from a stretch of unfrozen water. The remains of a herring gull lay at the centre of a widely scattered circle of blowing feathers. He flew from an elm near the river the tiercel peregrine flew up into the sky, plunged down across the fields, veering and swaying about like a tipsy snipe. Woodpigeons clouded the big fields between river and brook, and a hundred gulls flew up from the mud, like damp squibs. 