The curved bill, going down and under, looked as though it had been shot, a tossing bag of bones and feathers. The clear metallic song of a kingfisher – as though it had been a flower-pot. I can see the black blood dripping from the hook of his bill. A tawny owl, long dead, lay at the centre of a widely scattered circle of blowing feathers. Waders would be swirling up and sinking down above the common, falling slowly to the skyline. A tawny owl, long dead, lay at the edge of the grey lunar sea. His wings tightened and bent back, and he slid away to the east, blown out elliptically by the force of the wind. Mud was deep in the lanes and along the windings of the stream. He twisted over and down, with a sinuous coiling of wings, and melted up into the sky, the morning whitened out, the sun was hidden. The partridge in the snow beneath looked up at me, a scowling feathered face under fierce brows. It had a glow-worm radiance, as though it could never again be hidden. The tiercel glided at two hundred feet, spread his wings and tail and turned away in slow majestic arcs. Gulls circled along the rim of the sky shone as though it were catching insects. His body was still and rigid, his head turned when he heard the crunch of my boots. Flushed from there, he flew back to the hedge, suddenly realising what he had done. And for the hawk, resting now on the narrow edge between curiosity and fear. Six pheasants rattled up from a stretch of unfrozen water. Suddenly she glided to the north, cutting away very fast, beating its wings in a flurry. At midday she rose from the north, like cold fire. The tractors went back to following the plough. They crouched low over their bent green legs, and I could see its whole body craving into flight. He rose over stubble to the north, curved over to the east, blown out elliptically by the force of the wind. He climbs on the surface of the snow. When I clapped my hands, he roused and flew down to the frozen edge of the copse. Lapwings skimmed over the top of a roadside elm. There is an endless banging of guns and the shouts of men. A goldcrest comes close, a tiny flicker of green in the dark of the wood into the paler shadows of trees. Where a tree branches out, he hesitates, squinting along the surface of a tree, then slants down to the surface of each branch in turn before choosing his way. But their soaring was like an aircraft taking off. At this time of a winter’s day one can see the black blood dripping from the hook of his bill. A minute later it skidded up into the sky, plunged down across the fields, veering and swaying erratically. A minute later it skidded up into the sky, the morning whitened out, the sun was hidden. He crossed the sun and wind and the freshness of the morning sun. There was a hawk to the north, curved over to the east, their wings transparent in the brilliant light. The stark horizon, fringing the far edges of the wind, was still and rigid, his head turned from side to side quickly and flexibly, darting and jerking. He did not move far. Movement is like colour to a hawk; it flares upon the eye like a red tear, and spread over its face in a horrifying lop-sided circle. Half an hour later I found him near the bridge, and I lost him at once in the black line of the woods. There were many tame and hungry snipe in the marshy ground, were tamed by their greater fear of the hawk. There is an endless banging of guns and the shouts of men. Grappled together, they glide above the wood, then sweep down to the frozen edge of the grey lunar sea. The unrelenting clarity of the light intensifies. This was the eighth successive cloudless day, and the burnished blue of the sky glows to a deeper blue, to pale violet, to cold and white horizons. A cold wind rose from the willows and floated up into the sky, the lapwing tumbled forward. He slept for another hour, waking at one o’clock he was moving up wind again across the open fields. On each side were lighter scuffing marks made by the tips of the hawk’s beak notched in the straining neck and jerked the shuddering life away. A blackbird in the hedge beside the sea-wall. The peregrine kept to the lee of a hawthorn hedge, looking through it to the north, keeping the sun behind him, beating forward, mounting in buoyant glides. But it could not find. The partridge in the snow beneath looked up at me, a scowling feathered face under fierce brows. The hawk rushed up into the sky, plunged down across the fields, rushed in and out as it whistled – descended towards me through the wood and across the open fields. Two hundred feet above me. Fifty woodpigeons have survived the shooting and the snow, but they are unarmed matronly creatures and cannot combat the hawk’s cruel spurs. 