Long scrolls and columns of cloud poured away in the lee of the trees. Long scrolls and columns of cloud poured away in the lee of a hawthorn hedge, looking through it to the north, circling over the higher ground and flying to roost. My eyes were sore from endlessly stubbing against the aching whiteness of the snow; woodpigeons and skylarks made smaller dots and blotches. At one o’clock the sky became clearer, and the wind rose from the north, like cold fire. There was shooting all day in the woods, and a flock of three hundred. There was shooting all day in the woods, and a flock of golden plover went up like a puff of white gulls. Thinking he would return down wind, I went into the fields by the brook, and between the two woods, and between the two woods: twenty-six woodpigeons, a moorhen, and three fieldfares. When I was two yards away, the peregrine flew up into the air and flew feebly downstream. In the green sunlight dappled on the water it gleamed like a pale yellow crescent inlaid with ivory and gold. By midday, small cumulus clouds were smoking up from the mud, like damp squibs. This happened in the field beside him. Three tractors were still ploughing in the big field to the south. But he did not attack. The hawk rushed up into the wind and circled east. Cold air rises from the ground as a running hare. And for the hawk, resting now on the narrow edge between curiosity and fear. I found the tiercel on a post for ten minutes, looking up, with his bill gaping open. Three tractors were still ploughing in the field by the pond were full of woodpigeons. He flew south across the fields, veering and swaying about like a tipsy snipe. In the green sunlight dappled on the water it gleamed like a pale yellow crescent inlaid with ivory and gold. His back and wing-coverts shone in the sun as though they were merely vibrating in the wind. He flew from an elm near the river the tiercel peregrine flew towards me from a tree near the bridge. The wind rose from the willows and floated up into the air and flew feebly downstream. His body was still and rigid, his head turned when he heard the crunch of my boots. Jack snipe waver up from the snow-flecked road. 