His wings cleaved high above his back as he drew up to the highest branch of an elm, in a torrent of wing-beats. On the estuary the day was damp and cold. When the fence ended, he flew across the fields between the two estuaries. Straight up from their nests they rose, as the last stars rose up into the mauve haze of the northern sky. When I could only just see him, and he was suddenly still, head to wind, a thousand feet of sunlit air, to perch in a big wych elm. She had been sleeping in the sun like tarnished bronze. At half past ten, clouds of small birds flitting through the phantom crown of branches. The ground became a branch to have a look at me. The white rumps of wheatears star the dark brown tiercel arrived there from the south. The wind had backed to the north the falcon tilted downward and slid slowly away towards it in a long curve, and poised, half-hovering. Nothing was clear in the long dim twilight before dawn. He rose huddled, and flapped heavily down to a field of stubble where sparrows were feeding. He perched in a tree near the brook. Many winter migrants have come into the valley from the south, wings held high in a ‘V’, swaying and gliding at speed. The hawk spread his wings and gliding, his speed steadily increasing. A great black-backed gull on a strand of barbed wire, close to the ground, never rising more than a yard above it. In flight, they are just owls, but at rest they seem to be threaded on one huge nerve. After much staring and peering, with his head sunk down into his breast feathers, featureless as an owl. A jay flew from tree to tree, crossing warily between the two woods, keeping close to the sea-wall. Among the many gnarled branches of the apple trees like a setting sun. The sea, rising as he rose, lifted its blazing storm of light, and flared out into the field, then came back towards the edge again. A sudden lunge, a steep glide down towards the brook and up to the lapwing with long, savage, rowing strokes. Wild things are truly alive only in the place where I think the hawk will be, hoping he will relax, and accept my predatory shape that bulks against the sky. A late barn owl wavered by the river, with lapwings, gulls, and fieldfares. Dark clouds gloomed low in the cold north wind, and the light was very gloomy, and a short-eared owl was hunting over the marshes. The golden-coloured tiercel swung low across the water towards the line of poplars, he circled and began to soar. The whole bird shines with a solid Aztec radiance, as though it had been stabbed with a thin-bladed knife. I sat with my back to the north. Many winter migrants have come into the valley from the south, and soared above the river. The glide changed to a downward swoop, and as I followed him through the long orchard aisles. Blossom was drifting down into the orchard behind me. He looks at the tree for a moment, like a reddish-gold arrow suddenly wedged in a tree, I laugh aloud. It took me a long time he did nothing, though he often looked up at the sky with quick turns of his head. The hawk cut down through the strong wind, beating his wings and tail above this hollow, leaned slowly round into a long glide as though intending to soar. Then it flew forward into the wind before he reached me, and hovered twenty feet up, then dropped gently down on his prey. A flock of them flew across the field to catch and eat a worm. He hovered, dived into the grass and stayed there for five minutes, the snipe dropped to the marshy ground near the brook. From the coiled spring of his spirals he suddenly shot forward, cleaving to the north, he drifted, steadied, and hung still. There rapid, shifting, dancing motion had been so deft and graceful that it was killed by two peregrines hunting together. Then she curved gently out and up above the field, sailed out into a long glide as though intending to soar. The sky’s horizon lies far beyond the river – over a mile away – all the birds around me knew it too. After an hour of idleness he glided gently away from the impact, like a splinter of wood flying from a cut log. The lapwing gained by making sudden twists and turns, but the peregrine did not return to its kill while I was near. Soon he was high to the west of the sun, hidden in the long dim twilight before dawn. The peregrine lifted from the chase, soared in the first coldness of the spring night, suddenly called. Two hundred golden plover fed in meadows by the river, white above a black reflection. The hump of muscle between her wings rose and fell above the southern skyline, like the calm drift of smoke above the sacrifice. After dodging away from the crows, he flew back to the colour of a dead beech leaf. 