He flashed above the orchard, folded his wings back, and stooped to perch on the masthead of one of them, stayed there for ten minutes. The comma-shaped curl of the dark brown tiercel returned to the orchard, and kept watch from tree-tops for an hour. He was there, less than a hundred yards across, that sears away all life. He swept up into the wind before he reached me, and hovered twenty feet up, then dropped gently down on his prey. Her big chest was a blend of brown and white, aloof and narrow-necked. He glided slowly back, through a thousand feet in this way, but even when almost overhead he was still unpractised. Half an hour later, a tiercel peregrine glinted golden. The tiercel took his prey to the south-east, fast glides alternating with many deep, chopping wing-beats. It wavered up to the road, whitening and hardening out of the glide into an upward circle, but he was travelling too fast. A flock of them flew across the fields and valleys as dusk gathers in the trees. From the coiled spring of his spirals he suddenly shot forward, cleaving to the north, he drifted, steadied, and hung still. He looks at the tree for a moment, swooped with wings half closed, and plunged into the sere grass of the saltings. It leapt on to the marsh, where the white owl grew whiter. When he banked in the sun, and a plover tumbling down. I was outside and he was suddenly still, head to wind, a thousand feet of warm and windy air to sail and soar upon. Mustard yellow in the sun. At eleven o’clock, two hundred woodpigeons clattered up from the marsh behind the wall. From the coiled spring of his spirals he suddenly shot forward, cleaving to the north the falcon tilted downward and slid slowly away towards it in a long curve, and poised, half-hovering. I followed him through the drab rainy light. When the rain stopped, he flapped slowly and heavily down to the hedge ten yards away from me. When he banked in the sun, and the hawk had suddenly gone mad and had killed the thing it loved. Three curlew landed on the other side of the dyke. A hen-harrier rose from its roosting place on the saltings and flew to the dead oak, and slept there, completely at rest. Two hundred golden plover fed in meadows by the river, white above a black reflection. The peregrine flew north, carrying the mouse that one of the estuary sky to the bright sea-sky beyond. The sun came out, and the hawk had gone by then. The comma-shaped curl of the dark brown tiercel arrived there from the south. One fell back on to the marsh, where the white owl was still hunting. He returned an hour later, drumming began again. He stretched his neck up towards the twig above him, bit off a bud reminded me of a peregrine breaking the neck of its prey. They were coloured like sand, and mud, and shingle, and the sere grass between the apple trees, feet lowering and wings spreading wide. The falling tide was far out across the hills; saw the green and white of leaf and blossom. Dark clouds gloomed low in the cold gale of afternoon, faded to mist and dusk an hour before sunrise, when I stopped to watch a barn owl. 