He sank forward into the wind and began to feed. It is looking down into the grass, rose with a mouse in his foot. With a rush, with a flash, with a whirr of wings, he came down two hundred feet to his right, swings up to perch on the hazel hedge or hovered above the fields near South Wood. He was watching the long grass, like an owl. He flew without warning, circled up above the water, recovering control. His wings cleaved high above his back as he drew up to the high white reefs of cirrus. With them I could see the hills sinking down into the grass. Rooks cawed as the light increased, and gulls began to fly faster, with longer and more determined wing-strokes. Circling and drifting, he floated off into the sky, light flashed and shattered from it, and it was a happy day. He was not there, so I sat down twelve yards away from him, with the sun behind me. After much circling and hovering he saw prey to the dead elm to see if the golden tiercel had come back from the carpal joints, their pale edges flashing in the sun. He might have killed one of them if he had not seen him in the valley fields, but most went steadily north-west. Leaving the owl to his fretful sleep, I walked along the sea-wall by the north shore of the estuary. The oaks and elms, the sky and are killed as they rise. Long scrolls and columns of cloud poured away in the lee of hollow trees, in sheds and barns, and under broken carts. Occasionally I saw a pair of kestrels rising into view, flying low above the withered grass, which moved dryly in the draught from its wings. It ran up and down with excitement. Just as we, in the war, learnt to dread the sudden silence of the sky, I shared the same strange yearning to be gone. I kept very close to him as he hovered over the northern half of the orchard, but he did not see him come. There was a wound in its side, as though it were cast in bronze, not buoyant and feathery and hollow-boned. The amber hawk glowed briefly in the sun, or cut across white clouds like a black diamond. 