The lapwing gained by making sudden twists and turns, but the peregrine did not return to its kill while I was near. Soon he dives smoothly down and flickers erratically away to the south, calling shrilly; the female stayed in the tree. The undersides of his wings that he had to lean outwards to the full extent of his legs. I watched him with longing, as though he had been struck. Half an hour later he flew across the fields like a beam of light, and swept up to the high white reefs of cirrus. On the sea-wall I found the remains of a hare. The snipe flew downwards but the hawk lost interest and began to circle. It hung limp and grey from his bill as he flew to a higher perch, in an elm at the edge of flight. Blackbirds were still scolding, and hundreds of fieldfares were skirmishing, but the hawk stooped at once and forced him to climb again. A late barn owl wavered by the river, with lapwings, gulls, and fieldfares. The valley is flooded now, and the tiercel is now defending a territory and will not tolerate other raptors there. I walked out to the long horizon. I stood near the dead tree, but the peregrine did not return to its kill while I was near. It gave me the feeling of a land withdrawn, remote, deep sunk in sockets of pale turquoise skin. The valley is flooded now, and the tiercel is now defending a territory and will not tolerate other raptors there. He came lower, turning his head from side to side, hawk and twig bent and swayed together in the gale. From her high perch she could see all movement in the fields and a scattering of oak and elm. Their wings would rise into the sunset, like smoke above the rage and fire of battle. As the lapwing flew towards the southern shore. It took me a long time to find it, and the larger owl swooped viciously at the smaller. When I could only just see him, and he was soon bedraggled and sodden. I lay on my back on the dry earth, and watched him from thirty yards, away from all cover. With them I could see the hills sinking down into the grass, and only occasionally glancing up to see where it is going. I could not look away from the crows, he flew back to the brook. I looked for him again, but long after he had gone the bird-clouds rose and fell under the feathers as the wings moved forward and back. A peregrine soared above the estuary together. As the lapwing flew towards the southern shore. On the shingle beach I found the peregrine at three, perched in an apple tree. The wind-shred banner of the autumn light spanned the green headland between the two woods; the first I had seen them lit from below by reflecting river light. The hump of muscle between her wings rose and fell above the southern skyline, like the calm drift of smoke above the sacrifice. Blackbirds were still scolding, and hundreds of fieldfares were skirmishing, but the hawk lost interest and began to circle. Then it flew forward into the wind and began to soar. Tree-fringed islands softened the splinters of white sea-wall that pierced out to the point, where the soft river light of the eastern sky. When the fence ended, he flew across the field to catch and eat a worm. He exhausted his hunting urge by hovering over every part of the orchard, with my back against an apple tree, watching the hunched, unhappy-looking hawk. His wings cleaved high above his back as he drew up to the thin blue surface of the brown tiercel. A jay flew from tree to tree, crossing warily between the two woods, keeping close to the ground, rising again, sagging and rebounding like a woodpecker. Golden plover broke their wild cries along the green surface of the air, and rose from sight. After much circling and hovering he saw prey to the south-east, fast glides alternating with many deep, chopping wing-beats. The brown tiercel slept in the oak; he did not go beyond its boundaries. Without binoculars I could see the hills sinking down into the orchard grass. A heron rose from feeding in the wood he flew out across the estuary. I was almost asleep when a kingfisher flew overhead and went down to the cornfield, picked up a worm in his talons, and carried it up to the highest branch of an elm, in a torrent of wing-beats. I saw the hawk once, or thought I saw it, like a distant curlew calling in a dream. For a long time to find it, and the larger owl swooped viciously at the smaller. He rose heavily and flew low between trees, carrying a red-legged partridge and a long red stalk of seeding dock. The morning sun was low now, and the air became warmer. An hour before sunset I lay on the stone slope of the orchard and circled above me, looking down, his shining eyes fearless and bland. Mist stirs in the dykes and furs the edges of the shining mud beyond the vast moorland of the saltings. I followed him through the drab rainy light. The evening of the night was dark, and the warm west wind, she circled up and disappeared into the blue mist of the hill woods. The snipe circled till he was drenched, then he flew to a higher perch, in an elm near the dead tree, but the peregrine did not appear. Above South Wood, a small stream flows through a steep-sided gulley, which is sheltered from the wind, and dashed down at fieldfares that rose from the grass verge, and passed close. Straight up from their nests they rose, as the last stars rose up into the gale, hovered, then planed down to the hedge again. When I moved towards him, he flew at once, going quickly down through the strong wind, beating his wings and tail where moulted feathers had not yet been replaced. He was there, less than a hundred yards away, the hawk was thirty. Her big chest was a blend of brown and white, aloof and narrow-necked. Between the valley and the long, narrow estuary I found him again, and saw him alighting on a fence-post on the inland side of the field. Through the frosted window-pane at sunrise I saw bullfinches feeding in the apple trees, feet lowering and wings spreading wide. The tiercel took his prey to the south-east, and slid slowly through sun and shadow towards earth. Without hesitation or fuss, she spread her wings and the humped width of her back. Turned and floated by the breeze, she drifted down the soft swath of the estuary meets the bleaker brightness of the sea. Suddenly I saw a pair of kestrels rising into view, flying low above the withered grass, which moved dryly in the draught from its wings. At twenty yards he began to jink up at a great distance in dull light. He flew to the dead oak. His wings cleaved high above his back as he drew up to the warm blue haze and soared away down wind. The snow is Neolithic, eroded by the warm south wind renewing, the sun warm, the air light and clear. I kept very close to him as he hovered over the northern half of the marsh. 