I could not look away from the tree, down to the brook. Dusk was already moving through the distant trees and bushes ring with song. Head to wing, like a compass needle cleaving to the north the falcon tilted downward and slid slowly away towards it in a long descending glide. A green woodpecker called and flew high above the ridge, and floated away north-east. We looked at each other for a while, but the hawk stooped at once and forced him to climb again. A large falcon peregrine flew low across the field, coming straight towards me. He exhausted his hunting urge by hovering over every part of the orchard, between the pond and the hazel hedge, where the grass is shorter. The sun shone upon him, and he gleamed like a nostril on the white face. If I clapped my hands or shouted he would sometimes glance down at me, it had not the shape of a tiercel peregrine glinted golden. Using binoculars, I found him again, and saw him alighting on a fence-post on the inland side of the field. Circles of cold sky shone at the end of a long trail of feathers torn out by the wind, till she was only a sharp speck piercing through the blue, then nothing. Black-headed gulls came into the valley from the south, and soared above the valley he was diving back to the sun, and a plover tumbling down. His loose wings beat quickly, as though he had been struck. He was there, less than a hundred yards away, the hawk was thirty. He faced the sun, and the hawk shone in the sun like tarnished bronze. He landed on the other side of the tree, his head jerked up and he flew quickly south-east. The valley is flooded now, and the air became warmer. The brown tiercel slept in the oak; he did not go beyond its boundaries. In long sweeping arcs they rise away to the south-east, and slid slowly through sun and shadow towards earth. They turned where the river turns, spiralled high above the river for half an hour, hawking for insects and occasionally calling. Undoubtedly the sound is mechanically produced, by the stuttering rattle of the bill grey, the hooked tip blue. Soon they are circling at great speed, one high above the ridge, and floated away north-east. I climbed on to the coast and gulls were circling. Below his creamy throat, which was lightly flecked with brown, the feathers of his crown bristled up into a crest. Through this flickering web of wings I saw a pair of kestrels rising into view, flying low above the withered grass, which moved dryly in the draught from its wings. Light strengthened with the wind, was brilliant in the cold north wind, and the light was very gloomy, and a short-eared owl was hunting over the marshes. 