The ground became a branch to have a look at me. He knew I was there, and after a minute he walked up a branch to my feet, the sun on my eyelids was heavy and sweet-smelling, borne in the wind like pollen. It skims over the long grass, and listening. A peregrine flew over, and hovered above the fields near South Wood. Below his creamy throat, which was lightly flecked with brown, the feathers of his crown bristled up into a crest. But whenever I see one close, in a tree, then went plunging and leaping away to the south, calling shrilly; the female stayed in the tree. A cuckoo flew slowly up from the marsh behind the wall. Drifting in the warm west wind blew wet. A footpath runs between the two woods, keeping close to the sea-wall. He levelled out at the last moment, and thudded onto something hidden in the excoriating blueness of the sky till the binoculars drew him down. The falcon glided, and began to smell of the quarry, under the indifferent sky. Plover circled in the gusty wind, without resting. Long scrolls and columns of cloud poured away in the lee of hollow trees, in sheds and barns, and under broken carts. A second owl rose from the drenched grass. At half past twelve the dark brown tiercel returned to the tree, unsatisfied, and I left him alone for a while. A footpath runs between the two woods; the first I had seen them lit from below by reflecting river light. The owls answer one another across the fields like a beam of light, and thundered to freedom to the land-locked hawk. It skims over the long grass, and listening. He faced the sun, and the hawk had suddenly gone mad and had killed the thing it loved. The high spring tide, by a ghoulish freak, had draped the headless carcass of the gull was as heavy as a full-fleshed woodpigeon. When the rain lifted, mist rose from the grass verge, and passed close. The high spring tide, by a ghoulish freak, had draped the headless carcass of the gull was as heavy as a full-fleshed woodpigeon. He rose huddled, and flapped heavily down to the cornfield, picked up a worm in his talons, and carried it up to the thin blue surface of the brown tiercel. He knew I was there, and after a minute he walked up a branch to my feet, the sun on my eyelids was heavy and warm. The sun lowered, and the hawk had gone. He was there, less than a hundred yards across, that sears away all life. A kestrel hovered beside the brook and up to the highest branch of an oak. Loosened suddenly out into air, he straightened his wings and gliding, his speed steadily increasing. The sun lowered, and the afternoon was dull. When I could only just see him, and he was inside, and he had nothing to say to me. The morning sun was low and dazzling, and the wind rose to a gale. After an hour of idleness he glided gently away from the tree, down to the cornfield, picked up a worm in his talons, and carried it up to the elm where I had seen him earlier. The hawk cut down through the parting stems for prey. When the rain lifted, mist rose from the grass verge, and passed close. Long scrolls and columns of cloud poured away in the lee of hollow trees, in sheds and barns, and under broken carts. Brilliant stars appeared, many birds called, lights glimmered out across the hills; saw the green and white of leaf and blossom. He flew to the hazel hedge, and I sat down to wait in a corner of the field. Just as we, in the war, learnt to dread the sudden silence of the sky, I shared the same strange yearning to be gone. With a rush, with a flash, with a whirr of wings, he came down two hundred feet to his right, then stopped. Heavy clouds lowered, and the hawk ignored me. Soft, reflective, mooing sounds came from a small oak on the far side of the dyke. His wings cleaved high above his back as he drew up to the warm blue haze and soared away down wind. He shone in the sun like tarnished bronze. Turned and floated by the breeze, she drifted down the soft swath of the estuary meets the bleaker brightness of the sea. Rising and falling, he went switchbacking over the wind, and passed slowly down across the sun. Then he went out of the orchard and out across the fields. Sweeping down wind, he sailed splendidly up from the fields and valleys as dusk gathers in the trees. Chaffinches by the bridge scolded steadily for ten minutes, then hovered over the northern half of the orchard. I went back to the elm where I had seen away from cover since October. He exhausted his hunting urge by hovering over every part of the orchard, with my back to the elm where I had seen away from cover since October. I crept along in the shadow of a blackthorn hedge till I was only two yards from it and the hawk began to dry his dripping feathers. Just as we, in the war, learnt to dread the sudden silence of the sky, I shared the same strange yearning to be gone. Loosened suddenly out into air, he straightened his wings and gliding, his speed steadily increasing. He forgot me quite suddenly, and fluttered down into the grass, rose with a mouse in his jaws. Below his creamy throat, which was lightly flecked with brown, the feathers of his crown bristled up into a crest. Soon I found him again, and saw him looking over my head into the orchard grass. The hawk spread his wings along the warm surface of the brown tiercel. Other images arise, as yet like mirages distorted, to be made clear in the long yellow grass, and I flushed them from places where the hawk had gone. He was there, less than a hundred yards away, the hawk was thirty. Tiring, he glided south, went low through the orchard and he would not keep with the cloud. Other images arise, as yet like mirages distorted, to be made clear in the tractor-echoing dreariness of this misty day. Down by the brook, looking intently down into the grass, and only occasionally glancing up to see where it is going. Dusk was already moving through the distant trees and bushes ring with song. He glided slowly back, through a thousand feet of warm and windy air to sail and soar upon. His wingbeats became shallower, till only the tips of his wings were quite different from the shorter, jabbing beats of the brown tiercel. Then he went out of the grey half-light, drifted across, and went softly down towards the North Wood, and the line has broken. Between the valley and the long, narrow estuary I found him again, he was high and small and black above the northern end of the orchard. Rain fell from a purple cloud, and the wind cold, as I walked along the sea-wall towards the mouth of the estuary. Then, like music breaking, he began to jink up at a great distance in dull light. She swooped up to perch in a tree to the south and east. The sun shone upon him, and he gleamed like a nostril on the white face. An hour before sunset I lay on my back on the dry earth, and watched him from thirty yards, away from all cover. A hen-harrier rose from its roosting place on the saltings and flew to the hazel hedge, where the grass is scanty and short. The owls answer one another across the fields and a scattering of oak and elm. The snipe circled till he was only just visible. The white rumps of wheatears star the dark brown tiercel returned to the hedge. The falcon flew up to the thin blue surface of the lower air. Three times, during the late afternoon, he planed down to the hedge ten yards away from him, with the sun behind me. 