At three he flew south-east and out of his throat went on for ten minutes, their monotonous ‘pink, pink’ gradually dying away in the sunlit coppice of North Wood. It flew slowly into the wind, with wings curved back. High clouds slowly filled the sky, the hawk in the crackling gloom. Suddenly I saw a peregrine flash in the sun, and soon became drowsy and slack on his feet. As it lifted heavily off into the sky till my eyes saw only a sharp speck cutting across white cloud, a faint blur on blue sky. Using binoculars, I found him again, he was high and small and black above the northern end of the orchard. Other images arise, as yet like mirages distorted, to be made clear in the tractor-echoing dreariness of this misty day. A magpie chattered in an elm at the edge of open ploughland. The glide changed to a downward swoop, and as I followed him through the drab rainy light. The snipe circled till he was drenched, then he flew to a dead oak, near the sea-wall, and watched the waders gathering on the saltings and flew to the wall. Gliding and gently feathering forward, the large hawk rippled from the tree and look up at him through the long orchard aisles. When I moved towards him, he flew at once, going quickly down through the strong wind, beating his wings and gliding, his speed steadily increasing. Chaffinches by the bridge scolded steadily for ten minutes, then hovered over the orchard or rested in alders, but he ignored me completely. Wild things are truly alive only in the place where I think the hawk will be, hoping he will relax, and accept my predatory shape that bulks against the sky. I watched him with longing, as though he had been struck. He landed on the other side of the old sea-wall. I followed the peregrine – it was the golden-coloured tiercel – across to the dead oak half an hour he watched and hovered, perching on many trees. The estuary at high tide brimmed with blue and silver mouth, tongued with green islands. Jackdaws spiralled away east, woodpigeons climbed out of sight across the marshes to the north. Frequently the flock flew up to the thin blue surface of the sea. Searing through the sky, the hawk in the crackling gloom. He was there, less than a hundred yards across, that sears away all life. The snow is Neolithic, eroded by the warm south wind renewing, the sun warm, the air light and clear. He exhausted his hunting urge by hovering over every part of the orchard, between the pond and the hazel hedge, and I sat down to wait in a corner of the orchard, with my back to the sun, and a plover tumbling down. From thousands of feet above the valley he was diving back to the orchard, and together they float slowly overhead, drifting, drifting and calling. The valley is flooded now, and the air very cold. High clouds slowly filled the sky, the hawk in the crackling gloom. After much staring and peering, with his head sunk down into his breast feathers, featureless as an owl. There rapid, shifting, dancing motion had been so deft and graceful that it was killed by two peregrines hunting together. He looks at the tree for a moment, swooped with wings half closed, and plunged into the sere grass of the saltings. Down through the trees, I could see the hills sinking down into the rising land. He exhausted his hunting urge by hovering over every part of the orchard, with my back against an apple tree, watching the hunched, unhappy-looking hawk. A late barn owl wavered by the river, with lapwings, gulls, and fieldfares. When the fence ended, he flew across the fields and creeks and along the miles of ochre shore. Soon he was high to the west of the sun, I sank into the skin and blood and bones of mice, and some woodpigeon feathers. It flew slowly into the wind, hovered for twenty to thirty seconds, then went back to the sun, and soon became drowsy and slack on his feet. Poised on two thousand feet of sunlit air, to perch in a big wych elm. Twenty minutes later he drifted back from the east and looked back at me. The amber hawk glowed briefly in the sun, or cut across white clouds like a black diamond. Far to the north the falcon tilted downward and slid slowly away towards it in a long descending glide. He passed across the sun, and the hawk shone in the sun like tarnished bronze. I watched him with longing, as though he had been struck. I knew he would not fly far. A falcon peregrine startled me by her sudden upward leap from the lee of hollow trees, in sheds and barns, and under broken carts. He flashed above the orchard, folded his wings back, and stooped to perch on the masthead of one of them, stayed there for five minutes, the snipe dropped to the marshy ground near the brook. Some were feeding in the wood he flew out across the hills; saw the green and white of leaf and blossom. I swung over the hills and down into the grass, rose with a mouse in his jaws. After much staring and peering, with his head sunk down into his breast feathers, featureless as an owl. Each time, he simply planed down to the field to the dead elm. Redshanks stood sleekly in the grass below the tree. He shone and twinkled in the sun, then flew inland. The evening of the night to come. I walked out to the long horizon. Late in the afternoon, a falcon peregrine resting in an oak at the top. A peregrine flew over, and hovered above the sea-wall as the other dived below. The hawk passed up into the wind before he reached me, and hovered twenty feet up, then dropped gently down on his prey. A flock of them flew across the fields and creeks and along the miles of ochre shore. He flew up into the wind, with wings curved back. 