It was warm. The wind slowly lifted the sunlit haze of morning. Clouds formed, but broke again to blue. A noctule bat flew above the river for half an hour, hawking for insects and occasionally calling. The sun shone on its fuzzy brown back, and showed up its long furry ears. I could not find the peregrine.
Great spotted woodpeckers were noisy in South Wood. Seven sailed out of a tree together, chittering like piglets. They separated, and floated away on stiffly outstretched wings. They settled on the surrounding trees, and drummed for a second before dispersing; glorious clowns in Arden. A great spotted woodpecker’s drumming has a rich hollow sound if the texture of the wood is right. He looks at the tree for a moment, then leans slowly back and tilts quickly forward. After the initial blow, the others follow in a rapid volley. The bill seems merely to rebound from the wood, like a ball bouncing less and less. The taps get steadily softer and the bill closer and closer, till in the end it is almost resting against the tree, and the drumming dies away. He waits for a reply. He may wait for twenty minutes in the same position. When he hears drumming, he answers it at once.
A nuthatch scuttled across beech bark, well concealed until the rich ‘quee, quee, quee, quee’ of his song rang out. His back matches the bark, his breast is the colour of a dead beech leaf. He also sang a loud high-pitched trill, a shivering mechanical sound, like a woodpecker drumming a triangle.
In early April, wherever there are hornbeams there are flocks of singing greenfinches. Many were droning and purring drowsily in the sunlit coppice of North Wood. Some were feeding in the deep leaf-mould, with chaffinches, great tits, a marsh tit, and a robin. Frequently the flock flew up to the trees with a dry rustle of wings, then drifted silently down again through the dust-moted trellis of sun and shade. The yellow sunlight flickered with a thin drizzle of bird shadow. Flocked birds seem to be threaded on one huge nerve. They react extravagantly to the slightest change of light or movement. Suddenly I saw a hawfinch among them, bulky and masterful, a boar of a bird, with a heavy yellow bill like the prow of an icebreaker. He called: a loud emphatic ‘tsink’, a hiss and a pop and a whistle, all combined. I looked for him again, but could not find him. I did not see him come. I did not see him go. Like other belligerent-looking birds, hawfinches are wary and timid.
The thick scent of bluebells mingled with the smell of sulphur drifting from the orchard. A cuckoo flew slowly up from the direction of the river, following the windings of the brook. He came into the wood, and began his two months of unwearying song. Even if one is very close and can see him clearly, the two notes of his song seem to come from far away inside him. They are still muffled, as they were at a distance. He sings with an insane concentration. His eye has a fishy glaze. Its orange-yellow iris looks like a coloured bead pinned to his head. He is a tiresome lecherous bird, forever singing and listening for the bell-like ululation of his mate. After feeding in the wood he flew out across the fields, and was immediately chased by the peregrine, who may have been waiting for him, having heard and identified his song. He dodged back into the wood, and did not leave it again. Most hawks kill and eat cuckoos whenever they can, possibly because they find them easy to catch.
I followed the peregrine – it was the golden-coloured tiercel – across to the dead elm, where he rested for an hour, watching the sky. At five o’clock he circled up in wide rings and began to soar. He drifted east, calling and looking down. He called for a long time, as the hawk that departs calls down his sorrow to the one that stays. Then he glided away towards the coast. Slowly his speed increased. He was travelling on an immense parabola, and long before his final vertical fall was ended he had vanished into the hard clear light of the eastern sky.
A green woodpecker called and flew high above the open fields. A jay flew from tree to tree, crossing warily between the two woods; the first I had seen away from cover since October. Long-tailed tits flitted down from the hedges to collect feathers for their nests from kills the peregrine had made. These birds knew, as I knew, that the last peregrine had left the valley. They possessed the freedom I had lost.
