The shortest day: dull, cold, with a sudden flare of sunlight before dusk. There were kills by the brook: curlew, lapwing, woodpigeon, jackdaw, and two black-headed gulls. At one o’clock the tiercel stooped again and again at a nimbly dodging gull. He descended the north slope of the hill in a series of abortive, rushing ‘J’s’, and I did not see him again.
Till long after sunset I waited on the hillside, thinking of peregrines. Few winter in England now, fewer nest here. Ten years ago, even five years, it was very different. Peregrines were seen almost every winter then: on the North Kent Marshes, from Cliffe to Sheppey; in the Medway valley; over the chain of artificial lakes in the Colne valley, and on to the sterile plain of Middlesex; along the Thames from London to Oxford, and beyond; over the Berkshire and Wiltshire downs; along the Chiltern escarpment; on the high Cotswolds, and in the deep valleys of the small Cotswold rivers; across the wide river plains of the Trent, the Nene, and the Ouse; over the fens, the dry Breckland, and around the shores of the Wash; along the east coast from Thames to Humber. These were the traditional wintering places, remembered and revisited by dynasties of peregrines, deserted now because there are no descendants, because the ancient eyries are dying, their lineage gone.
Due west, eighty miles from here, the land rises to the north of Oxford, and goes on rising. Slowly the hills unwind their long horizons, and the land surfs up into limestone and hangs like a frozen wave of green above the Severn plain. The uniqueness of Cotswold is in air and stone; it is something very cold and pure. I remember the peregrines of those winter hills. They perched on the undulating limestone walls that glimmered in the deepening dusk and shone long after all the fields were dark, as though deep within their honey-coloured stone a candled twilight slowly died. High and heraldic, peregrines watched from the beech-crests and saw the beech-burnt horizons ringing the winter sky, that immense Cotswold sky, drifted with vast flocks of plover like debris from the flying curve of earth. Cotswold is its own place, withdrawn, remote. It has its own light, and cold, and sky, and monarchy of cloud. It will not be meshed in words. I remember following a peregrine down into a river valley on just such a frosty day as this. The hills were cold; the gustless wind was unceasing, a gentle leaning of ice into the face. But when cycling down into the steep-sided valley, I descended into coldness I had never imagined possible. Layers of ice seemed to shatter across my frozen face. The air smelt of iron, hard and implacable. It was like going down through the cold green strata of the sea. I remember those winter days with affection and nostalgia, those frozen fields ablaze with warring hawks. It is sad that it should be so no longer.
Chalk cliffs of the South; sky like blue smoke fuming from the sun; a cold north-east gale blowing. But in the lee of the cliffs the air as hot and stifling as hot canvas. The wind rushed off the land and roared across the sea, shredding waves to foam. The sea was a cool green wall of water, streamed with emerald and viridian, glazed with rich veins of cobalt, dissolving far out to amethyst and purple haze. It was all green foam and regal colour and white waves hissing and plunging on the stony shore.
I scrambled over chalk boulders and slipper rocks, stumbled across stretches of firm, pristine, cool, wave-moulded sand. Jackdaws and herring gulls were noisy on the cliffs. The clear metallic song of a rock pipit drifted slowly down the cliff-face. The tide receded. The day grew hotter and more stifling; the gale boomed and shuddered out to sea, two hundred feet above. The white cliffs scorched and dazzled, reflecting heat and light. My eyes were sore from endlessly stubbing against the aching whiteness of the chalk. By three o’clock I had given up all hope of hawks. Then, from the last high bastion before the haven, a tiercel peregrine flowed coolly out to sea, glided and soared down wind, till hidden in the bright sea haze. I went closer to the cliff. The falcon flew from a ledge near the top, and soared towards the tiercel. Together they rose and faded in the distant sky.
I saw them many times in the days that followed. They had a nest-scrape, but no eggs or young. They spent the day just sitting on the cliff or soaring out to sea. Their hunting was done inland, very early and late, and it did not take long. They seemed bored, sterile; they had no meaning.
Above, they were the colour of the sea’s deepest blue; below, like the soiled whiteness of shadowed chalk. In the turbulent air above the cliffs and shallows they soared for hours, hoping perhaps to lure away intruders from their nesting place. Invisible even in a telescope magnifying sixty times, even in purest summer sky, they drifted idly above the glittering Channel water. They had no song. Their calls were harsh and ugly. But their soaring was like an endless silent singing. What else had they to do? They were sea falcons now; there was nothing to keep them to the land. Foul poison burned within them like a burrowing fuse. Their life was lonely death, and would not be renewed. All they could do was take their glory to the sky. They were the last of their race.
