The day hardened in the easterly gale, like a flawless crystal. Columns of sunlight floated on the land. The unrelenting clarity of the air was solid, resonant, cold and pure and remote as the face of the dead.
Near the brook a heron lay in frozen stubble. Its wings were stuck to the ground by frost, and the mandibles of its bill were frozen together. Its eyes were open and living, the rest of it was dead. All was dead but the fear of man. As I approached I could see its whole body craving into flight. But it could not fly. I gave it peace, and saw the agonised sunlight of its eyes slowly heal with cloud.
No pain, no death, is more terrible to a wild creature than its fear of man. A red-throated diver, sodden and obscene with oil, able to move only its head, will push itself out from the sea-wall with its bill if you reach down to it as it floats like a log in the tide. A poisoned crow, gaping and helplessly floundering in the grass, bright yellow foam bubbling from its throat, will dash itself up again and again on to the descending wall of air, if you try to catch it. A rabbit, inflated and foul with myxomatosis, just a twitching pulse beating in a bladder of bones and fur, will feel the vibration of your footstep and will look for you with bulging, sightless eyes. Then it will drag itself away into a bush, trembling with fear.
We are the killers. We stink of death. We carry it with us. It sticks to us like frost. We cannot tear it away.
At midday the peregrine soared above the hill, and lapwings wheeled and flowed across the sky. They had come in from the south-east on morning migration, and the hawk had risen to meet them. He stooped. A woodpigeon dropped from the sky as though dead, spread his wings, and landed with a thud in a spurt of frosty earth. He stayed there for ten minutes, looking up, with his bill gaping open. He glowed purple and grey like broccoli, in the white field.
I went down into the deep gulley of the narrow wood. Ashes and hornbeams filtered the sun’s glare. Many birds were feeding on steep slopes where the frost had melted. Woodcock ripped away from brambles by the stream. There was a faint panting of wings. A small cloud of dusk flickered across the barred sunlight, like the shadow of something higher. Thirty yards away from me, across the thickness of the wood, it swooped up to perch on the branch of an oak. It was a sparrowhawk. The joy of such a moment can be relished for life, though the colour of the memory will slowly fade, like the plumage of a stuffed bird in a glass case. Looking through the telescope, my eye seemed amazingly close to the small head of the hawk. It is a head rather similar in proportion to that of a partridge or chicken; rounded at the crown, with the feathers sleeking up to a slight peak at the back. The curved bill, going down and under, looked as though it had been pushed deep into the face.
The grey and brown feathers were streaked and mottled with fawn; good camouflage against the bark of trees or the dappled canopy of sunlit leaves. After landing, it crouched slightly forward, stretching its neck and looking around. Its head flicked from side to side quickly and flexibly, darting and jerking. The eyes were large in relation to the slender, rather flattened head. They had small dark pupils surrounded by a wide yellow iris. They were a blazing blankness, an utterly terrifying insanity of searing yellow, raging and seething like sulphurous craters. They seemed to shine in the dimness like jellies of yellow blood.
The glaring madness died away. The hawk unstiffened, and began to preen. Then its eyes kindled again. It swooped softly down from its perch, and flitted away to the east. It rose and fell, following the contour of the ground, keeping just above the hornbeam coppice, twisting between the tall oak standards. It did not glide. It beat its wings quickly, deeply, and very quietly, like an owl, flicking the air lightly with the splayed tips of its primaries. Woodpigeons feeding on acorns or hazel nuts do not see the sparrowhawk till it is pouncing down upon them from a tree. They struggle, but they are unarmed matronly creatures and cannot combat the hawk’s cruel spurs. They are ridden to the ground and are executed there by the riving bill.
The sparrowhawk lurks in dusk; in true dusk, in the dusk before dawn, in the dusty cobwebby dusk of hazel and hornbeam, in the thick gloomy dusk of firs and larches. It will fold into a tree as though it had been thrown there, reminding me of the sticks I used to throw into chestnut trees to dislodge conkers. Suddenly a stick would wedge in a branch and be lost, and nothing could be done about it. The sparrowhawk can be like that: you can see it fly in, but you do not see it go. You have lost it.
I came out of the wood at three o’clock to find the peregrine circling west above the brook. His back and wing-coverts shone in the sun as though they were covered with hard overlapping scales of chitin. They gleamed between the dark blue-black primaries, like red and gold chain-mail.
Cold air rises from the ground as the sun goes down. The eye-burning clarity of the light intensifies. The southern rim of the sky glows to a deeper blue, to pale violet, to purple, then thins to grey. Slowly the wind falls, and the still air begins to freeze. The solid eastern ridge is black; it has a bloom on it like the dust on the skin of a grape. The west flares briefly. The long, cold amber of the afterglow casts clear black lunar shadows. There is an animal mystery in the light that sets upon the fields like a frozen muscle that will flex and wake at sunrise. I feel compelled to lie down in this numbing density of silence, to companion and comfort the dying in these cold depths at the foot of the solstice: those that have fled from the falcon in the sky, from the hawk in the dark of the wood, from the foxes, stoats, and weasels, now running over the frozen fields, from the otter swimming in the icy brook; those whose blood now courses from the hunting frost, whose frail hearts choke in the clawed frost’s bitter grip.
