The fields were covered by three inches of snow, glittering in the powerless morning sun. Many birds have gone, or have been silenced by the cold. There was no ease or comfort in the bleak, tense air.
A jackdaw hopped from branch to branch of a tree by the valley road, endlessly calling ‘chak, chak’, a hard brittle sound like the smack of wood on wood, which meant it had seen a hawk. As I went down the snow-drifted path to the brook the tiercel peregrine flew towards me from a tree near the bridge. He passed overhead, looking sideways and down. For the first time, I realised that he may watch for my arrival in the valley. The predictability of my movements may have made him more curious, and more trusting. He may associate me now with the incessant disturbance of prey, as though I too were a species of hawk. The snow will make it difficult for me to keep as close to him as I have been.
White light shone up from the snow and reflected down from the breast of the hawk a pale golden radiance, in which the interlocking hackles of dark brown and fawn seemed to be deeply embedded. The crown of his head gleamed like a pale yellow crescent inlaid with ivory and gold. Two hundred crouching mallard were black smudges in the whiteness of the snow; woodpigeons and skylarks made smaller dots and blotches. The hawk looked down and saw them all, but he did not attack. He perched in a tree near the road, with his back towards me, huddled down in the shape of a swede or of a huge copper-coloured beetle. He did not see me approach, but his head turned when he heard the crunch of my boots. He went steadily eastwards, clearly imprinted on the whiteness of the snow and on the shining egg-white of the sky, but hidden at once in the black line of the woods.
This was the way he flew. The inner wings were held up at an angle of forty-five degrees to the body. They did not move far. They jerked forward a little as the outer wings swung back, and back slightly when the outer wings went forward. The outer wings flicked round with a quick sculling rhythm, flexible and willowy. No two wing-beats were identical. There was an endless variation in the depth, speed, and diameter, of their revolutions. One wing seemed occasionally to bite deeper than the other, causing the hawk to veer and tilt from side to side. Altitude was never constant; it was always slightly rising or falling. This bird has unusual power, and a strangely individual style; he glides and rocks away from each free swing forward and sweet pull backward of the long, tapering sculls of his wings.
I followed him east, but could not find him again. Snow clouds to the north were pale white above a counter-shading of deep blue-grey. They were very shiny and smooth-looking, and they never came any nearer. There was shooting all day in the woods, and at dusk every hedge was lined with guns. The woodpigeons have no food, no rest. Thousands fly north, thousands remain. A few feeble thrushes fed in ditches, thin-necked, with loose, pinched flanks. Two gaunt herons tottered in the shallows of the brook where water still moves freely. A wave of turquoise froze into a kingfisher standing on a stone, then broke, and flowed away round a bend of the stream.
I avoid humans, but hiding is difficult now the snow has come. A hare dashed away, with its ears laid back, pitifully large and conspicuous. I use what cover I can. It is like living in a foreign city during an insurrection. There is an endless banging of guns and tramping of feet in the snow. One has an unpleasantly hunted feeling. Or is it so unpleasant? I am as solitary now as the hawk I pursue.
