The slow thaw continues, and birds are returning to the valley. Today there were three hundred fieldfares in trees by the brook. Blackbirds and chaffinches were in the woods, and a skylark sang. A hundred mallard, twenty woodpigeons, and a mute swan, were feeding on a heap of potatoes. The flew off together when I approached, and manoeuvred together as a flock before returning to their food. There were many fox and hare tracks in the snow, broken by flattened hollows where the animals had rolled about in it, presumably for pleasure, as dogs do.
I found more peregrine kills: six woodpigeons and a rook. One of the woodpigeons had been killed only an hour of two before; its blood was still being absorbed by the snow. The wings, breast-bone, legs, and pelvis, lay at the centre of a widely scattered circle of blowing feathers. The deep corrugated toe marks of the peregrine were mixed with the spidery footprints of a crow and the pad marks of a fox. Both fox and crow had apparently tried to drive the hawk from its kill. A large area of snow had been trampled by their feet. The scaly rings and bumpy pads of the hawk’s toes, which help it to grip its prey, had made deep dents in the snow. These odd, thick-toed, knobbly footprints are quite different from those of other birds. To rest my hand in the place where the peregrine had stood so recently was to experience a strong feeling of proximity, of identification. Footprints in snow are strangely moving. They seem an almost shameful betrayal of the creatures that make them, as though something of themselves had been left defenceless. The valley is covered with the footprints of birds that the cold weather has killed, pathetic memorials that the sun is slowly eroding.
At midday the tiercel circled in hazy sunshine and drifted away in the south-east wind. I tried to follow, but the snow was too deep for me. Ditches and gullies have been filled in and hidden. One can plunge without warning into six feet of snow.
All through the clear afternoon, little owls called, magpies flashed in the sun, and migrating gulls circled north-east. They flew high, and I could not see them without binoculars. Their loud cackling cries came down from an empty sky.

The days are cloudless now. The cold east wind is a blaze of lances, the sun warm and brilliant in wide skies. The snow steadily recedes, and the parched eye is quenched with green again. Strange unfamiliar green, like green snow fallen on white fields.
Two hundred woodpigeons have come back, jays are conspicuous again, fieldfares thrive. Hedge sparrows feed in the lanes, and there are blackbirds everywhere. A song thrush and four skylarks sang all day. I flushed seven pairs of red-legged partridges and numerous coveys.
There were thirty kills in the fields by the brook, and between the two woods: twenty-six woodpigeons, a moorhen, and three fieldfares. Almost all were old, and had been covered by snow until now. One very fresh woodpigeon had been plucked and eaten on the brook’s only remaining stretch of ice. For the last two months woodpigeons have been thin and under-weight, and the peregrines have had to kill a larger number than usual to obtain the amount of food they need.
At three o’clock the tiercel circled among rooks to the east of the ford. Later, between branches, I saw his bronze-brown back gleaming in yellow sunlight as he perched on an oak. He shone like a huge, inverted, golden pear.

The crests of the higher fields are dappled brown and white, but snow is still a foot deep on the lower ground. Water flows in narrow channels through ice six inches thick. There are no blackbirds or thrushes in the valley now; no robins, hedge sparrows, or wrens. Only two feeble skylarks are left of the hundreds that were here in autumn. Three chaffinches remain from a flock of three hundred. Jackdaw numbers have been halved. Fifty woodpigeons have survived the shooting and the snow, but they are very thin and weak. Crows follow them everywhere, waiting for them to die. Two pairs of bullfinches have come through. There are blue tits and marsh tits in the woods, and a flock of long-tailed tits. There are eighty mallard and forty red-legged partridges in fields by the brook.
I found the remains of thirteen woodpigeons and a mallard; all had been killed recently by the peregrine, and had been plucked and eaten on the surface of the snow. The mallard was lying in the open field a hundred yards from South Wood. After striking down its prey, the peregrine had landed four yards away. There were two deep footprints in the snow, at the end of long, scored grooves. On each side were lighter scuffing marks made by the tips of the hawk’s wings. Shallower footprints led up to the kill and were clustered around it. Light parallel lines showed where the end of the hawk’s tail had dragged along the snow. The prints of the three front toes were short and blunt; that of the hind toe was three inches long, and was more deeply embedded. The tracks of a fox came out to the kill, and went back into the wood again. It had smelt the blood of the duck, and had gnawed the bones when the hawk had finished feeding.

This was a day made absolute, the sun unflawed, the blue sky pure. Slate roofs and crows’ wings burned white like magnesium. The shining mauve and silver woods, snow-rooted, bit sharply black into the solid blueness of the sky. The air was cold. The wind rose from the north, like cold fire. All was revealed, the moment of creation, a rainbow poured upon rock and shaped into woods and rivers.
The peregrine flew north across the valley. He was half a mile away, but I could see the brown and black of his wings, the shining gold of his back. The pale cream of his tail coverts looked like a band of straw twined round the base of his tail. Thinking he would return down wind, I went into the fields by the river to watch for him. I stood in the lee of a hawthorn hedge, looking through it to the north, sheltered from the bitter wind. By midday, small cumulus clouds were smoking up from the horizon. They were very white, but those that followed were greyer and larger. Warm air was rising where snow had thawed.
The hawk must have circled over, high and unseen, for at one o’clock he was moving up wind again across the open fields. Already he was two hundred feet up, and climbing fast. He sculled easily forward, then glided. With every glide he lifted fifty feet into the wind. At five hundred feet he spread his wings and tail and turned away in slow majestic arcs. Each long luxuriant circle floated him a hundred feet higher, and the wind drifted him southward. In half a minute he had doubled his height and was very small, and far beyond the river; another half-minute and he was barely visible, two thousand feet above the fields. The thermal tower of air, which had wafted him so high, cooled away in the wind. He began to beat his wings rapidly between glides, moving in narrower circles. Joy became hunting. He was quick and nimble in the sky, intricately weaving and threading the loops of his figures of eight. His wings sprang sharply back from the resilient air. He crossed the sun and was hidden, but I found him on the other side, climbing higher and smaller. A blackbird in the hedge behind me must suddenly have seen him for the first time. In spite of the great distance between them he started to scold frantically, jumping from twig to twig in an agony of apprehension. The hawk became very small. I thought he must be leaving for the coast, but when almost out of sight he swung round in a glide and came down and back into the wind, till I could just see the shape of his wings. In light less perfect I would never have seen him at all, for I was looking up, at a sixty degree angle, at a bird half a mile away.
He hovered, and stayed still, striding on the crumbling columns of air, curved wings jerking and flexing. Five minutes he stayed there, fixed like a barb in the blue flesh of sky. His body was still and rigid, his head turned from side to side, his tail fanned open and shut, his wings whipped and shuddered like canvas in the lash of the wind. He side-slipped to his left, paused, then glided round and down into what could only be the beginning of a tremendous stoop. There is no mistaking the menace of that first easy drifting fall. Smoothly, at an angle of fifty degrees, he descended; not slowly, but controlling his speed; gracefully, beautifully balanced. There was no abrupt change. The angle of his fall became gradually steeper till there was no angle left, but only a perfect arc. He curved over and slowly revolved, as though for delight, glorying in anticipation of the dive to come. His feet opened and gleamed golden, clutching up towards the sun. He rolled over, and they dulled, and turned towards the ground beneath, and closed again. For a thousand feet he fell, and curved, and slowly turned, and tilted upright. Then his speed increased, and he dropped vertically down. He had another thousand feet to fall, but now he fell sheer, shimmering down through dazzling sunlight, heart-shaped, like a heart in flames. He became smaller and darker, diving down from the sun. The partridge in the snow beneath looked up at the black heart dilating down upon him, and heard a hiss of wings rising to a roar. In ten seconds the hawk was down, and the whole splendid fabric, the arched reredos and immense fan-vaulting of his flight, was consumed and lost in the fiery maelstrom of the sky.
And for the partridge there was the sun suddenly shut out, the foul flailing blackness spreading wings above, the roar ceasing, the blazing knives driving in, the terrible white face descending – hooked and masked and horned and staring-eyed. And then the back-breaking agony beginning, and snow scattering from scuffling feet, and snow filling the bill’s wide silent scream, till the merciful needle of the hawk’s beak notched in the straining neck and jerked the shuddering life away.
And for the hawk, resting now on the soft flaccid bulk of his prey, there was the rip and tear of choking feathers, and hot blood dripping from the hook of the beak and rage dying slowly to a small hard core within.
And for the watcher, sheltered for centuries from such hunger and such rage, such agony and such fear, there is the memory of that sabring fall from the sky, and the vicarious joy of the guiltless hunter who kills only through his familiar, and wills him to be fed.

