The pine wood hides the sun, like a dark northern god rising in menace above the white road that falls steeply to the west, and the small green hills beyond are receding into a grey autumnal haze. The high town silvers in sunlight, and its sky is barbed with curving swifts. But already the night’s simplicity is settling upon the valley. Under the exotic flowering of the early lights, a blue Venetian dusk laps at the windows of the shadowed houses. As I watch, the high town is extinguished, and its shining sky ascends. The stiff-feathered pines shed their darkness into the still air.
A twilight of luminous birches glimmers upon the blackness of the pines. I sink into the mossy summer-woodland smell of the birch leaves. It is a sweet herbivorous breath, like the smell of rain drying away from the hot road. It rises from the wood like a corona of green mist. It is a cave that leads into another world; the subterranean, removed world of the summer night.
A dead mole lies on its back in the path, as though it had fallen from the sky. It is solid and heavy, but the pouchy fur is as soft as the skin of a peach. Its slack feet seem to crumple the air, like small white hands. Its jaws have sagged apart, and a red gape shows between. The teeth are pointed and sharp. There is no pathos in this predatory face. The mouth is held open as though the mole were panting. It is vivid and startling, like an inexplicable splash of blood.
A cuckoo calls, deep in the western silence. The rutted path curves down between dense plantations of fifteen-foot pines. My sense of direction is lost at once. A few tall and dying oaks stand high above the conifers. Redpolls fly overhead, their dry trills rippling through the warm air. All around me the indigo pines are turning black. They have a stifling intensity, as though they were holding their breath. It is comforting to touch them, the cool needles brisk to the fingers, the resinous scent starry upon the hand. Darkness is drifting slowly down from the pine branches. The silence of its soft descent is almost audible. Very remote now, thrushes and robins are singing.
A strange roaring rises from the pines, heavy and gasping, spasmodic, like the bellowing of a bull. I cannot tell whether it is close or far off. It is a forlorn, curiously instrumental sound, half bovine, half human: the call of a red deer stag. The first three or four notes are drawn out, declamatory, each one a little longer and louder than the last, an inquisitorial challenging of the night air. There is a brief pause. This is followed by three or four short barking notes, declining and deepening, becoming shorter and softer. Then the call ceases abruptly, as though suddenly muffled by a hand. Four times, with prolonged, bristling pauses of expectancy between, the vibrant, husky roaring of the stag is repeated. It seems to rise up from the earth itself, like the snarling blast of a primitive trumpet, musty with the breath of decay. It is a pent-up, hostile savagery of sound released into the dusk in long horn-like curves, anguished and unfulfilled. When the last roar has faded, there is no other noise, no movement in the trees. I can imagine the stag’s head sinking down, bowed beneath its bush of antlers, listening for the soft terror of my tread.
 
 
I go deeper into the wood. Here the trees are scattered among open spaces of bracken. There is a faint swishing. Forty yards away, between two oaks, a red deer hind stands watching me. Her fawn colour shines, a pale glow against the grey of the trees and the green of the bracken. Her long neck looks taut and strained with fear. Her head is carefully poised, her large ears quiver, her dark muzzle is held high. She has a bewildered, unicorn sadness, beautiful, doomed, and mute. After several seconds’ gazing, she bounds heavily into cover, her back legs plunging and trembling away. As the crushed bracken straightens, a tree pipit sings for the last time before sunrise, floating down from the top of a pine.
There is a rustle of roosting birds in the pale cloud of the rhododendron thicket. The red blossom is black, but the white still shines. The song of a tawny owl quavers through the hollows of the air. The owl flies northward. I can follow its trail by listening to the scolding blackbirds. As the air cools, and darkens, the owl’s song seems to deepen, echoing through the temple of the night. It begins with a single declarative note, brief, tremulous, and loud. There is a long pause, an absolute silence in which no bird calls, as though all are waiting – as I am – for the rest of the song to follow. Then it comes, circling out into the imposed silence, thrilling among the trees like a glimmer of dark blue lightning. The scolding of the blackbirds ends quite suddenly; the go to roost, and the owl begins to hunt. The western light gleams faintly between the boles of the trees in narrow vertical strips of green and yellow, like blades of tall grass. But this grass light withers quickly down, as though devoured by fire, and all is grey.
 
 
Ten minutes after sunset, deep in the heavy-swirling dusk, I hear the hoarse bass croaking of a woodcock, followed at once by its shrill bat-like chirrup. The sound comes from the north. The woodcock flies overhead, fifty feet up, moving much faster than I expected, silhouetted against the sky. Its wing-beats are quick, and rather shallow; a steady winnowing, like the flight of a noctule bat. It is a blurred shape, and I cannot see its bill. It does not fly straight. Every twenty yards or so it veers on to a different course. It calls frequently; the five-syllabled croak and then the thin piping whistle. The croak has an odd, mechanical timbre. It is a wooden stridulation, very deep-throated and dryly rasping, as a grasshopper might sound if its song were artificially slowed down. The shrill squeaking, which follows without any pause at all, seems as though it must either be produced in a different manner or come from a different bird. It is a high sniggering that carries a great distance, so that I can hear it fading down into the valley, above the line of the stream, long after the preceding croak is quite inaudible.
Five minutes later, I again hear the woodcock approaching from the north. It calls several times before it appears, flying in the same direction, but not as fast. Through the binoculars I can see that its long bill is pointing forwards at an angle of thirty degrees below the horizontal. The croaking call is uttered without any visible opening of the bill; the mandibles are parted slightly for the high-pitched chirrup. At the first note of the croak, the woodcock’s wing-beat falters. The broad wings seem to stutter for a few seconds. The bird changes course, a bulky shape rapidly twisting and turning. This brief, staccato fumbling at the air is very quickly done and difficult to see. The owl-like wings seem to hang limp and still for a moment, then they flutter erratically before resuming their normal steady pulsation.
This curious display-flight, known as roding, continues for twenty minutes. The only sounds I can hear are the occasional calling of the woodcock, the whining of mosquitoes, and the creaking of a dead leaf or twig under the weight of a mouse. The upcurving branches of the young cactus-shaped pines are tapered with a candelabra of new shoots. Their bright lime-green colour burns white in the dusk. The dark sea of the wood is phosphorescent with their pale uplifted flames. I can smell the heavy pine-lit air and the drenched summer green of the bracken.
Two crows fly heavily through the wood. Their harsh night-calls echo among the trees. A hobby glides above, silent and secret as an owl, its wings shaped like small black sails. Its fencing, darting pursuit of moths and beetles is like the nightjar’s flight. Sails suddenly furling, it drops away among the dark trees, like a thrown sickle curving back to earth. Darkness rises in the wood and floats out into the surrounding fields. Only the paths still shine. Bats feel their way deftly across the face of the sky, falling and clinging. The hobby glides from the trees, wings pricking black against the faint light of the first stars. It chases a bat, a large shadow hooding a small one. I can see nothing more, but I hear the hollow reed-sound of the stoop, and feel the cold rushing of the air.
 
 
Very far off, so quietly that I cannot be certain whether or not I am really hearing it, the churring song of a nightjar seems to furrow the smooth surface of the silence. Forgetful of paths, I plunge into the implacable night of the pines, rushing towards that narrow stream of murmuring song that may at any moment dry away. Here and there I touch the luminosity of birch bark. Twigs snap beneath my feet, flick across my face. A mist of corn comes whitely towards me, gliding up between trees that drift apart. Suddenly I am at the edge of the wood. The corn is like a white fogbank rising in front of me. The nightjar’s song is closer now, but still a long way off. Stumbling under low branches, I find a path to follow. The song grows louder; then it stops. The white ghost moths flit above the bracken. A tawny owl moans softly. Red-legged partridges call from the cornfield.
There is a sudden ‘kwoink’, a deep rich sound, like a cork being pulled from a large and echoing glass bottle. It is the flight-call of the nightjar. Something dances in the air above me, flits and bounces upon air; long tail, long wings; a blur imprinted softly, and withdrawn; the nightjar has come and gone. The last light withers. Nothing happens. The highest branch of a dead oak widens at the top. The nightjar is perching lengthwise along the branch. His body lies low and flat, but his head is held upward. There is a soft chirrup, as though his syrinx clicked and spluttered; then the song begins. It starts far away, and seems to come slowly nearer. Suddenly it is very near. It increases rapidly in speed and volume. The bill is held wide open. The upraised head of the bird is large and frog-like. It flicks quickly from side to side, and the song changes in pitch and volume, seems then to come from some more distant nightjar. It rises and falls, an unbroken flow of sound, like the reeling-in of a fishing-line, but much louder and deeper, as though it were winding in the last faint threads of light.
When heard at a distance, a nightjar’s song can seem metallic, monotonous; but among the trees, close to the ear, it has a wonderfully musical dryness of timbre. It pulsates. The pitch changes every fifteen seconds, and the change is always preceded by a very short pause, like a change of gear. The sound is dimmed momentarily, and then released. The song can be heard for half a mile on a still night; at twenty yards it is astonishingly loud. The air trembles with it. It does not die away; it gathers between the trees and flows out into the wood. The whole of the May night is coiled within this song: the dark-smelling winy fragrance of the wood, the fading fragments of dead sky, the wolfish pines glittering with the early stars, the dry freaking of a bat, the hot tweedy smell of the damp earth. It is a sound the ear can never completely lose. It seems to emerge from an earlier darkness, before there was fire, when all such harmless sounds were a comfort, a soothing for the fever of fear that scorched man’s sleep in the woods.
The song stops. Just as it seemed as though it would never end, it snaps abruptly away. It seems to pierce the gloom with a visible, decisive spark. After a few seconds of the intense velvet darkness that follows the vanishing of a brilliant light, the nightjar leaps from his perch, his soft-flying wings reaching high above his head. The song falls back into his throat as he rises. He glides downward, and it shakes out in deep bubbling trills, runs out in sudden spurts and rushes, as though he were going down into deep water. There is a sharp smacking sound, like the smacking fall of a fish on to the surface of a pond. The nightjar rises again, and I can see that he is clapping his wings together above his back. Five times this loud wet clapping of the wings is repeated. It is a hollow sound, like the clapping of cupped hands or the slapping fall of a plank upon mud. It is like an invocation to the night, the ceremonial summoning of a god. A second bird, the female, calls close by. The two nightjars dance upon the sword-points of the stars. They swoop between the pines on the far side of the path. The wing-clapping begins again. One bird chases a big moth, diving down into greater silences, deeper shadows. They disappear. The pine crests are sharp and uncompromising against the sky. All else is very dark. The earth is abandoned to the incoming night.
 
 
The darkness of the wood is so intense that it seems to shine with a dim, skeletal light. There is a sense of hidden life, of endless movement, hunger, combat, like the dark warmth of the tidal blood. A nightjar twirls above. Behind it, leaping forward with wings curving back like immense sickle claws, is a hobby. I cannot tell whether it is pursuing the nightjar or swooping at the moths the nightjar feeds upon. It leaves a wake of stars. The night-darkened mind of the hawk seems to glow like the nebula of a distant city, as though the celestial glitter of its eyes shone from within.
A tawny owl beats down the dark ride. Many points of light, visible to him though I cannot see them, gleam in the grass and the bracken like a dew of fallen stars beneath the shadow of his wings. Something shrieks as the owl descends, bringing the endless darkness that follows the shreds of fire. Somewhere a life hangs limp; the still blood, in its continent of fur, hanging from the cold talons that have drawn the last flame. The death of an animal is very quiet, whether it is the slow suffocation of disease or the sudden leap from life of the slain. The owl’s hollow voice floats like a sail in the dark stream of the ride.
 
 
The nightjar sings again on the far side of the pines. The sound is pure and remote now. Like the darkness, it is colder, harder, pierced by the bristling stars. I go down through the wood with the song fading back behind me, fading to a faint line of sound, a thread that thins and frays and then snaps away. My feet slither on the sun-polished earth that still glimmers with light. The sky is softly black, bending over me like the moist eye of a deer.
The road slopes down, cold now, but webbed with hollows of warmth between tall hedges. The rich smell of the wood withdraws. Below me are the lights of the town, like a ship that can never depart.