The sun shone, and a sharp wind of light blew in my face, like the hot shuddering of a white sail above the green downland. The hills to the south were dark, receding in the wave-like ridges, fading from grey to blue and out into misty air. Those nearest seemed to be soaring away, those beyond to come slowly forward. The truly remote stood in the peace of their silence, belonging not to this landscape but to another time and place.
Below, on the slope of the downs, was a small wood, dark with the clouded green of the oaks, light with the feathery swaying of an ash, the white of the may, and a quiver of emerald larches. The warm-throated songs of the blackbirds drifted towards me in the breeze, audible only when the larks above were silent.
The meadow to the south was large and far-reaching, curving down to a green skyline that glowed beneath the taint of distant smoke. Swallows hawked above this field of rustling green and yellow light, and the wind hunted within it. The wind came up-hill, moving through the grass, sifting out into long ripples like the swaying of the sea. Sometimes it flowed evenly upward to break at the field’s edge, a thin, invisible wave of air. The south wind rose, and moved upon the hill of grass with a soft, insistent motion, coursing through it with long white lightnings, feathering above it with an oar-like sweeping. The tall grass bent over to whiteness, like shining falls of sunlit hair.
 
 
Late in the afternoon, the grass began to smell of hay. The rising wind was flashing away the greenness to a seethe of white. Bees droned in the clover, and there was a low, dancing haze of butterflies. I went down the hill, through the deep grass that spread out behind me in a shining wake, till I came to a group of bending pines. Two fox cubs appeared from a hole in the bracken. I stood still. The only sound was the rise and fall of the ocean wind in the tall pines. The cubs stood and watched me, their big eyes moist and shining. Both were startled when I raised the binoculars; one went down into the hole, the other stayed watching. Its eyes were pale blue, big blue irises surrounding small black pupils, brilliant in the fawn of its face. It tried to smell or hear something it could understand. Its long, striped ears kept folding and twitching. It had the round-eyed, uncomprehending look that all young animals have. Occasionally it ducked its head down and swung it from side to side. Then it went quickly and quietly back into the hole, big paws soft and clumsy in the dry earth.
 
 
Slowly the May afternoon declined into a summer evening. Rabbits fed in the grass, moving out with the spreading shadow of the hillside wood. There were clouds far to the south, but the sky was clear above. Only a few shavings of cirrus glittered in the blue. The wood was untouched, serene with song. Its green shade was like the cool green clasp of water. Something seemed to be growing and ripening there within, like the endless flow and ascension of light from the fallen sky of a pond.
The wood had been unchanged since sunrise. The hawthorns were still white with blossom; the ground beneath was covered by a mist of white petals, like a reflection of the flowers above. The ash trees had a lighter, fresher shade. A cuckoo called. The cooing of woodpigeons ebbed away from the edge of the wood. Many blackbirds sang, a rambling music, like sunlit summer rain. The voice of a nightingale pierced out with anguished sweetness from the white may. The bird’s throat shook with song, as though something inside were struggling to get free. The loud whistling power of the notes seemed unrelated to the constriction that produced them, seemed too pure and rich to have passed through the narrow syrinx of a bird.
I went closer to the wood. The green cloud of the trees sank into solidity, like a spent kite sauntering down. Between the bars of the gate I could smell the warm breath of the ferny ride. The interior of a wood is forever beyond our reach, so sunlit and complete, brimming with its own secret life. As soon as we enter, the trees move apart, the light changes, colour gains, something drifts imperceptibly away to again become the distance, lost in what is now the outer sky, the unattainable.
 
 
I circled the singing green of the trees till I came to a narrow path the rabbits had made. Stooping low, ducking beneath branches, I went guiltily into the wood. At once the wind faded up into the high trees, the air was still, the light overgrown with oak and hawthorn and elder. Jays called in the cool dusk of the shade, and a bullfinch fretted at the edge of silence. The island wood seemed to float across the down, like a raft. The silence grew, took shape, became a cool tower in the heat of the brilliant sky. It was a shading silence. Within it, I felt strangely safe. From the far side of a dead ash, a green woodpecker called softly, the sound half-smothered by the bulk of the tree. It drummed on the bark, a quiet rattling, like the drumming of a distant great spotted woodpecker. Then it called again, softly, hoarsely, as though talking to itself. Yet the sound was ardent, intense. When I moved, the two woodpeckers flew silently away. On this island I was a stranger, an intruder.
 
 
I walked deeper into the wood, treading furtively, uneasily. Crows flew slowly above, looking down, dark and menacing. The sun had gone from the lower trees. The air was cool and damp. There was a misty smell, and nothing shone. A woodpigeon lay so naturally in a patch of soft grass, as though on eggs, that at first I did not know that it was dead. I picked it up. Its grey back gleamed blue as it passed through the light. Its open eyes had a brilliant glaze, the pupils dark in the vivid blue of the irises. Looking at them was like staring in through the sky-filled windows of an empty house. The feathers were soft and loose, the whole body soft with flesh. I let it fall into the grass. It landed with a hollow slap. Acorns rattled in its crop. It died before it needed them. If left alone, it would become a tree.
I came to a sunlit clearing barred with long shadows. A turtle dove sang beneath the oaks, breathing out its gentle, amorous purr, a deep and leafy sound. The bracken swished, and separated, and a fox suddenly appeared in the narrow path ahead of me. My smell must have been far more pungent and choking to him than his glandular stench was to me, but for a long time he did nothing. He had been moving very slowly, as though pondering, perhaps not yet fully awake after his daylight sleep. He came forward a few paces. Watching his pale yellow and white face, slightly darker in colour about the amber shining eyes, I seemed to feel the soft mask of the fox pass over me. I felt the fetid breath, the questing nose that never sleeps, the hot cloak of senses so keen as to be unbearable to man. I stifled in the mask of the fox, as though I was his earth, his refuge. He looked out through my eyes. Then this strange feeling faded; and there was the fox again, a yard in front of me. Without any sign that he recognised me as an enemy, he walked slowly past and vanished into the bracken.
 
 
In the middle of the wood, just as I had thought that I must now be moving outwards again towards the perimeter, I entered a small plantation of larches. It was eight o’clock. The cobwebby larches enclosed an intense stillness. The plantation was dark inside, quiet and dark. There was a feeling of sudden descent, a sense of falling forward into a different place, another time, another air. Nothing sang. The light was unused, relapsing slowly into dusk. On the far side of the trees a misty brightness hovered beyond the gloom.
The stillness was broken by a flow of wings. A brown bird flitted low, a fanning of dry quills moving the fronds of the green bracken. Silently it rushed upward and landed on the raised antler of a fallen oak. Its long brown tail streamed out behind it like a wake of shining brown water. It was a hen sparrowhawk. Her back was ridged high, her curved head pecked the air. Pale upon the early gloom, flung up against it like a stranded wave, she shone with involuntary light. The yellow iris of her eye seemed to fade slowly down to red, as though it were reflecting a sunset. It burned towards me, searing through the dusk.
The hawk was never still. Her long legs trembled, her narrow toes clutched frantically at the bark. She quivered on the tines of the dead tree, like an autumn leaf before it falls. It was neither fear nor rage that made her shiver in this way. She was lifted by a dream of movement. In her mind she was still flying. The poplar of her muscles moves always in the wind of flight; it will never be calm till it is felled by death.
I took one step forward. She dived from the tree, and rose away towards the far side of the plantation, where the faint lines of light between the larches were now overgrown by dusk. She flicked the air with the splayed quills of her broad wings, as though it were too hot to touch. She flew with a phantasmal buoyancy and deftness, curving the shining snake of her flight between the distant trees. She crossed the last strands of sky; she was a dark feather laid upon the sinking sun; then she was gone.
 
 
I left the twilight of the larch plantation, and came out into the more open woodland, where the sun was still shining in the tops of the tallest trees. Some blackbirds were singing, others were scolding before going to roost. The shadow of night’s silence was slowly eclipsing the sounds of the day. A chaffinch called at the edge of the wood, and then a mistle thrush. The bracken moved in the wind and pecked lightly at my hands. A male sparrowhawk glided softly up from the downs to the south, like an arrow of feathery dusk drifting under the surface of the light. He rose to perch in an oak. As he landed, his long tail – barred with brown and white – spread out into a triangle of brown mist, then closed suddenly to grey. A frail cry, which seemed to trail up from the roots of the tree, pierced the resumed singing of the blackbirds: ‘keer, keer, keer, keer’: a bleating, forlorn shape of a sound. He saw me watching him, and he hopped along the branch till he was hidden by the bole of the tree. He was hidden, yet I could feel him trembling there. I could imagine his small lizard-like head pouncing forward and listening to the inimical stillness of the grey bark, while his gloom-piercing eyes spiralled out their rings of yellow fire into the ambush of the leaves.
After a minute of fear had slowly diminished him, the hawk went deeper into the wood. The trees were far below the sunlight now, and he could fly higher. He twisted silently away between the dark tree-tops, and perched on the dead branch of an oak, just out of sight. I had to move an inch or two to see him plainly. At once he was flying again. The human eye had scorched him. He retreated, flinging rapidly away like a small brown cloak thrown forward by the wind. Briefly the late sun reddened the bark-colour of his back, and made golden the dim sunset of his breast. He darted into a copse of silver birches, where pale light was floating on the rising dusk. Dodging to left and right between the trees, he stabbed away from me. Very far off, I heard him call, most mournful and despondent of sounds, a fast shrill whinnying that moved erratically among the birches, rising and falling. It was muffled, as though it were being made with the bill tightly closed. It was a loud, clear sound, yet frail; ‘kee, kee, kee, kee’, endlessly repeated, varying in pitch, running up into a grasshopper-like trill, then slowing and slurring. It was nasal, beaky, coming from high and far up in the curved, narrow head of the frightened hawk. He kept out of sight, twitching backwards and forwards behind the trees, crying out his simple emotion – of fear, or of summons to his mate – like an endless frenetic song. The sound raced faster, flew madly through the wood, then fled to the south, fading and sinking away. It stopped. There was a plaintive, pleading ‘kee-u, kee-u, kee-u’, with a soft rising inflection, like a whimpered reproach. Then only the wind, endlessly drifting the call of the hawk through the dark trees.
The male sparrowhawk lives very close to the edge of things. He is a primitive, an aboriginal among birds, savage in killing because his power is small. His long legs look thin and fragile, like stems of amber. He snatches his prey, bears it down, grips it insanely as though he fears its life will swell up in his foot, will swell up and burst and overwhelm him. He roosts late, in high dark trees, floating to his perch at dusk. The wind frightens him, as it moves the leaves across his eyes. He knows the tread of a man, and flies from it before he sees his fear. Every movement of the wood reaches out and touches him with a long finger. The need to serve the nest, to bring food for his mate and for the young birds, can make him less timid for a time. But unmated, or when nesting is over, he reverts to what he was: a wild-leaping gazelle of the air, whose thin yellow eyes pierce all shadow, whom all steps tread upon, whom all sounds deafen, whom all sights dazzle; the flying nerve of the wood.
 
 
The downland grass was already grey, and the sky was heavy with the rain-clouds that were moving up from the south. The wood sank into night. The white hawthorn blossom seemed to drift down through the twilight, descending slowly through the darkness of the trees. One by one the calls of the stone curlews rose in the long valleys of the downs, like fossil voices released from the strata of the chalk. Their dry exhalations remained suspended in the air above, so that the renewed calls rose always into the same ancient outline, shaping upon the darkness a stonehenge of haunting sound. A short-eared owl flew past, beating softly over the grass, turning its head to watch me with wondering, moonlit eyes.
 
 
I entered the wood again, and went down towards the road. The warm night dampened into rain that slowly became colder and straighter. I scrambled and slithered along the broad ride. The wet trees were heavy and steep with darkness, and the ground seemed more uneven than it had been earlier. I heard a bird singing in the open woodland to the west, and I stopped to listen. It was a wood lark. I plunged into the bracken, and blundered towards the distant sound. The bracken was as wet as an overgrown pond. Wet bushes loomed, and slashed, and went past. The ground began to rise. The lark was singing above a slope where there were few large trees and many open spaces. It circled above me, singing in the cold and drenching rain. The night breathed down upon my upturned face. I felt that the heavy splashes of the rain should sparkle, but there were black. In wide circles, rising and falling, the wood lark drifted and sang. The cold dissolution of the air was exhilarating. All around me was a blackness of rustling leaves that smelt of the sea.
The wood lark’s song is less abandoned and more melancholy-sounding than the skylark’s. Each new cadence is elaborated from the one that went before. The bird seems to ponder each phrase before shaping it into song. He sings it, lets it fall, recovers it, lets it fall, then lets it lie where it fell.
For twenty minutes I stood beneath the circling lark. He did not come down, nor was there any break in his song. There was no point in my staring up into the darkness, but I always did so, as though seeking a sudden transparency. It was a wonder to me that so small a fragment of life could fly in complete darkness, and in heavy rain, breathing so carefully, skilfully, out into nothing, for nothing, to nothing, but to be itself. When I was down in the wet road, deep down in the hollow of the night, I could still hear the song of the wood lark fading upwards like a ring of stars in the distant wood that seemed so far above me.