The beech wood towered into the sky above the sunken road. The knuckled roots of the beeches grappled the crumbling earth of the steep bank. They were like exposed muscles, so tense with power that I expected to see them flex and tighten, taking a firmer grip upon the yielding surface. The road was hidden from the wood, and the hollow of air above it was soon overgrown by grey branches and green leaves.
It was a June morning, and the sun was warm. The tall beeches had a watery shine. Three hundred yards away, the boles of the trees – both near and distant – formed an encircling palisade of grey light rising and falling. The rust-coloured floor of the wood was covered with a tessellation of seed-husks and dead leaves. There were a few large oaks among the beeches, and a shining darkness of holly. Where the trees were widely spaced, there was a dense undergrowth of brambles, crossed here and there by the fish-like gleam of a fallen beech.
The stifled, emotional voice of a stock dove throbbed in the beech-dusk. The tall columns of the trees rose into vast cupolas of empty air. A nuthatch sang, loud but secretive, like a child pretending to be lost, scampering carelessly over the smooth pathways of the branches. The high canopy of small lime-green leaves, opaque and dark under cloud, became luminous and almost transparent when the sun shone. This tracery of leaves seemed to exist apart, as though it had sunk down from above to be sustained upon the fountains of grey branches rising from the pillars of the trees.
 
 
There were no paths. I wandered through the wood, going neither forward nor back. The fluctuation of the sunlight seemed to become as regular as the sea-breathing of the leaves. I had no sense of the passing of time. I felt insignificant beneath the heroic gestures of the trees. Chaffinches and mistle thrushes sang, green woodpeckers called, and there was the constant seething sound of young starlings begging for food.
Dark against the bright rust of the dead leaves, an unfledged starling lay flabbily upon its back. It was loose-skinned, helpless, and frog-like. Its eyes were closed, but twitching; its whole body twitched, its legs moved feebly, pathetically, feeling for foothold upon the unresisting air. It had probably been dropped there by the jay I had disturbed a few minutes earlier. It is sad to see life ending before it has really begun. So much apparent cruelty is mercifully concealed from us by the sheltering leaves. We seldom see the bones of pain that hang beyond the green summer day. The woods and fields and gardens are places of endless stabbing, impaling, squashing, and mangling. We see only what floats to the surface: the colour, the song, the nesting, and the feeding. I do not think we could bear a clear vision of the animal world.
 
 
The seamed and hollow cave of an old oak leaned out above me. A pipistrelle bat skittered up into the sunlight. The small twigs that still had leaves seemed to be clinging to the bole like parasites, like new trees growing from the dead and wrinkled hide of the old. The bole was tusked with the stumps of long-dead branches. The sky gleamed down through holes that were like empty eye-sockets. A wren walked over the wooden surface, its song echoing frivolously in the cloistral gloom of the friar-waisted tree. The oak was dying into a different life. Embossed with a gloat of goblin faces, it seemed to have assumed an animal existence, as though it might go crashing through the wood in search of prey.
Suddenly the song of a tawny owl trembled up into the sunlight, like a dark bloom. The monotonous sound of mobbing began; the screeching of jays, the scolding of blackbirds and chaffinches. The owl glided from the leaves of an oak, as though it had been ejected from a tunnel of shrill sound. It beat away between the tree-tops, glowing rufous and brown in the light of the beeches, looking paler and less real as it rose higher. The darkness seemed to dry away from its wings. Then it was gathered into the green lustre of a holly, where it could resume the leaf-starred night of its sleep. The sound of mobbing faded, and dispersed, and the wood was quiet again.
 
 
I walked on, moving slowly between the petrified saurian limbs of the trees. The boles of these beeches varied greatly in contour and texture. Many appeared smooth, like grey satin, but some had a sandpaper roughness and were covered with a shadow of moss. High in the green sunlight of the leaves, the trill of a wood warbler was faintly shimmering. Gradually the sound came lower, and closer, as the small green and yellow bird descended to some low-sweeping branches near the ground. He fluttered out briefly to take insects from the air; he picked food from the surface of the leaves with his bill; he peered under twigs, and tweaked gently at the bark. Occasionally I heard the softer, more reflective, four-note song, very remote and melancholy, the mandibles of the bill hardly separating. The main song came loudly, frequently, and at regular intervals, sometimes ceasing abruptly when the bird found food. It was a stuttering, slightly sibilant sound; a pleasant dry cascade, rather mechanical in timbre, beginning slowly, then descending and hastening into a cadence, a vehement trill. It is a sound one always associates with the shining green sea-light that moves endlessly over the pebbles of the beech leaves, with the mossy grey branches and the smooth boles mapped with shadow. The wood warbler’s singing ended as suddenly as it had begun, and soon the bird was hidden again and forgotten, absorbed by the high leaves.
 
 
Many times during the morning I had heard a dry scuffling sound in the trees, but had seen nothing. Now a grey squirrel suddenly appeared on the lowest branch of an oak, eight yards in front of me. It seemed to condense there out of the yellow woodland light, squatting immobile, rigid. Another squirrel flashed up on the side of the tree, ran downwards, then stopped. Its legs were spread wide apart, looking as though they were webbed, and its long claws gripped the fissures of the bark. Both squirrels kept still for a few minutes. Their large blue-black eyes, bulging from whitish fur, were dark and unreflecting, curiously dull, dimmed by a moleskin haze. They blinked frequently, their eyelids fluttering down like moths. I walked towards the tree. For a few seconds their lean shapes seemed to recede into grey blurs that slowly diminished. Then they were suddenly sucked away, hidden by the oak.
The squirrels leapt across to a beech, and ran up and down the bole, hiding from each other, squeaking and grunting. One ran out on to a branch and hung down by its forelegs; the other sprang from the branch beneath, clutched upward, and swung upon its tail. Then they both swung up on to the higher branch together. The larger one jumped over the smaller, scratching its face lightly with an outstretched paw. They chased again, purring with excitement, their claws scuttling crab-like over the smooth bark.
I was suddenly aware of a coldness in the sunlit glade. There was no movement. The squirrels stopped chasing, became sleek and watchful, looking upwards. Far off, the alarm-note of a chaffinch, the screech of a jay, the clatter of woodpigeons rising: closer, the calling of blackbirds, the inane laugh of a green woodpecker. Then a silence, a stillness like night descending. Under the canopy of the leaves, between the bars of sun and shadow, the wings of a sparrowhawk came gliding and dilating, ferrying a sidereal dusk through the green and tawny sunlight. It was a large bird; the broad wings resting upon the silence, the curved prow of the head riding over the still air. The fiery cornelian eyes were kindled with a glow of orange flame. The white keel of the chest was barred with darkness. The sparrowhawk had heard the squirrels, and had come to search for them. They had gone. The rigid shape tilted over, and circled slowly round the tree. It was a female, looking more like an owl than a hawk. It was brown in the sun, pearl-grey in the shadows. For a minute or more it twisted between the trees, fanning its wings and gliding. Then slowly it sailed out into the distance, dwindling and darkening up through the beeches, like a cloud lifting. The songs of birds shone again in the sunlit glade.
 
 
The afternoon was hot. The sunlight had a hard metallic glitter, the shade sank deep beneath the trees. The cooing of woodpigeons wafted sleepily through the warm air. I came to a clearing, where blackcaps sang among the brambles and a swallow flew above. A tall dead beech had the chimerical gleam of a lost city in the jungle, a city for birds and insects. One branch still had leaves; the others were truncated and decayed, flaking into dust. A treecreeper slanted up the greyish-white cliff of the bole, peering into crevices. It sang; a thin vehement tingling, like the melting of an icicle. It seized a caterpillar with the sharp pincers of its bill, banged it against the tree eight or nine times, presumably to kill it – in the same way that a kingfisher kills a large fish –then swallowed it in one gulp. The treecreeper moved upward again. After much hesitation, it followed one of the tributary branches to its source in the sky. Suddenly finding that its curved bill was tapping only the air, it seemed bewildered. It still searched for a higher way, looking up at the sky. Then it peered over the edge, saw the ground below, and flew down to the foot of another tree.
A green woodpecker appeared on the bole of the dead beech. I did not see it in flight. I saw only its shadow, and then the bird itself superimposed upon the shadow, as though its colours had materialised from a print on the sunlit bark. It moved upward in slow jerks, watched by a starling. Its eye shone dark, a dark stone within the white eye-ring and the surrounding patch of black. The scarlet feathers of its crown gleamed in the sun. The long, heavy-looking bill, greyish-white and tapering to a point, was sheathed into the narrow red and black head that bulged out, bullet-shaped, above the flexible neck. The large feet were laid flat on the side of the tree, with the toes stretching upward. The chest was a pale greenish-grey, brightening at the centre to a smudgy whiteness, a mossy shading that matched the beech-bark. The woodpecker drew its head back slowly, far back, leaning out from the tree; then it bowed slowly forward again. Its bill moved through a long arc, like a gun being slowly raised and lowered. Suddenly it flew off into the wood, dipping and rising silently between the trees. The red-feathered crown of its head seemed to fleck the green beech leaves with splashes of shining blood.
 
 
I sat in the shade of a holly, watching the dead beech. Jackdaws sometimes perched there, a wren sang, blue tits and nuthatches searched the bark for food. The hot sun tinted the tree with pale violet light. A grey squirrel crouched low along a dead branch, looking like a flake of grey bark. I kept still, and the squirrel became less wary, sitting up to wash its fur with its tongue, as a cat does, and to scratch its back. It moved to the bole of the tree and crept slowly downwards, head foremost, body and tail flattened against the bole, till it reached the roots. It lowered itself to the ground, till only its tail was stretched vertically upward. It was completely hidden, perfectly camouflaged. Through the binoculars, I could just see that it was a squirrel; without them it looked like another tendon of the spreading beech roots. Its eyes closed, and it seemed to be sleeping. But soon it crept away under the brambles, and I did not see it again. Like many animals, when they do not know they are being watched, it moved slowly and with apparent difficulty, as though its limbs were stiff or broken.
 
 
A jay screeched wildly in the beech wood, and fled into the open clearing, pursued by a sparrowhawk. The hawk drew in behind the jay. Its foot reached forward like a yellow hand, bony, febrile, clutching air, like an old man feeling in front of him. It clutched again. The talons hooked into the tail of the jay and crawled forward till they reached his back, like a climber hauling himself up a steep rock-face with his fingertips. The jay’s flight was broken. His wings moved feebly, spasmodically, like the oars of a boat whose rower has suddenly collapsed. Then they drooped listlessly in air. The two birds sank together like a crippled biplane, tilted, then dived into the brambles. The jay struggled, heaving up in a delirium of fear, but he was underneath and could not overthrow the hawk. He seemed defenceless. He had begun to die at the first touch of the knifing talons. Soon he was dead, and the hawk stood breathless above him, curved like a claw.
I heard the dry snuffling sound of feathers being plucked. It was like the crackling of a distant fire. A smoke of small feather-fronds drifted away in the breeze. The hawk’s head rose and fell, stabbing and wrenching. There was a sharp snapping of bones. The jay was lifted, and transformed. The feeding hawk seemed to glow with a fierce, infernal heat. The yellow eyes flickered and pierced. Fear could be felt in the quiet air. It bristled in the heat, like a faint cloud of frost-needles. The sun moved slowly through the beech leaves, and shone across the clearing. The hawk rose, and flew silently away into the wood, carrying the remains of its prey.
 
 
At four o’clock the green woodpecker returned to the dead beech. It landed on the bole, and stayed motionless for a long time. This lizard-like immobility is a characteristic of the species. One sees nothing curious in the complete stillness of a resting hawk, yet a woodpecker always seems odd unless it is moving. One forgets that this clinging to the side of a tree is the woodpecker’s natural perching position, in which it is quite relaxed and comfortable.
While the woodpecker remained rigidly still, as though it had been hypnotised, the jackdaws called above the clearing, circling and tumbling in a noisy flock. Bees crept among the faded blue flowers of the ground ivy, and a chiffchaff sang. Gradually the chiffchaff came lower in the trees, carrying food in its bill. It called softly, then dropped lightly down to its nest in the brambles. A jay flew to an oak, and sank silently above the chiffchaff, a bright shadow falling through the sunlight with sinister ease, foxy-red and fawn, staring-faced, flourishing its brilliant blue-eyed wings. I disturbed it before it could find and carry off the young birds.
At last the green woodpecker moved. It climbed slowly upward, and began to dig its bill into a cavity in the bole. It dug with tremendously fast stabbing movements. Its head vibrated violently into a green blur as it swung in and out. It attacked the tree, leaping at it savagely, hitting into it with destructive force. Its feet were glued to the bole, but its legs flexed and extended outwards like springs as it leant far back and then came pickaxing forward. At intervals it would stop abruptly, freezing into a posture of mute aggression. When the starlings came near, the woodpecker fluttered at them, lunging fiercely with its bill and clashing its wings among the leaves. It landed on a swaying twig, and its wings and tail spread out to an astonishing width, making it look large and formidable, a green and yellow brilliance, like a huge tropical butterfly.
Eventually it stayed on the living branch of the dead tree, doing nothing, apparently exhausted. Occasionally it moved a short distance up or down. The big crinkled toes, like grey spiders, reached a long way in front of the resting bird. They rose or sank for several seconds before the bird itself began to move. Its legs were thick and sinewy, bouncing and springing as though the tree was a trampoline. They moved like the hind legs of a hare; sometimes slow and crippled, sometimes boundingly light and supple. When I went closer, the woodpecker sank over the side of the branch till only its steeply-pointing bill, red crown, and bright eye, were showing. When I moved back, it flew away.
 
 
Now that the woodpecker has gone, I am able to relax, to stand freely at the foot of the beech. Two starlings are feeding their young in the hole where the woodpecker was digging. It may have been trying to enlarge the hole, which could have been its nest-site before the starlings dispossessed it; or it may have been trying to kill or eject the young starlings. The violence of its action suggested assault, but woodpeckers are extravagant in all their movements, flinging themselves about with melodramatic zest or remaining motionless with a woodenness that is like a rigor.
Behind me, as I stand concealed by the dead tree, I can hear the hesitant blundering sound of a timid animal moving through the brambles. A roe deer has come out into the cooler air of the clearing. It is a sudden glow of colour, a rich chestnut-red, like a long-legged fox. Its nose twitches, and its big ears move nervously. It is the size of a large dog, very tremulous and slender, with docile, wondering eyes. This is a different place. The deer looks up at the dead beech, listening for familiar sounds. It watches me for half a minute; then it turns, and trots back towards the trees. It stops, and looks round. Then it gallops, leaping like a lamb, bounding away into the beech wood. It has been to the edge of the world.
 
 
I go back into cover, waiting for the woodpecker to return. The boles of the trees are softened by a mellower light. High above, a heron is circling slowly to the south. Its long bill shines like ivory in the evening sun. I look down to see the sparrowhawk gliding to the top of the dead beech. Its brown wings flutter mistily as it perches, facing the sun. It relaxes, shakes out its feathers, and sinks down upon the tree. It now looks smaller, hunched and dumpy, with a narrow head that is flattened slightly across the crown. The large eyes are the centre of the bird. Their dark pupils are encircled by glowing irises of brilliant citron yellow. They are like savage stone-age eyes staring through the mask of the present. The resting hawk is like a wooden idol that has been carved and varnished and set in the sun to dry. It looks primitive, tongueless, huge-eyed, and glaring. Cuckoos call in the distance, thrushes and blackbirds sing. The air is quiet, the breeze a far sighing in the beeches. The life of the wood is unchanged, but it seems to have dwindled, to be strangely remote. The sparrowhawk does nothing, does not move its head, glares as though blind. It is volcanic, smouldering with suppressed violence. The green woodpecker flies back to the beech, dips abruptly as it sees the hawk, and lands near the foot of the bole. The hawk looks down, the woodpecker stares up. The two prehistoric profiles have the profound stillness of weapons in repose. Slowly the sun sinks below the trees and the shadows rise over the dead beech. The woodpecker darkens, but the hawk still shines. Suddenly the woodpecker has gone. The hawk dives down into the submerging shadows. Only the man remains.

Out here is the true smell of the sea, very salt and liquid, like cold salt water flooding the nostrils with sudden fear. The wind is chlorine-coloured; it shines, it shines with speed. The boat dives forward through mouths of glittering foam. The sail cracks like a whip upon the wind. The shore recedes, the cliffsinks down, the land narrows to a thin grey splinter. The raised jaw of a speedboat passes, swallowing water. There is a pale haze in the centre of the western sky, where the wind is rising. The sail is like a white fin curving from the foam. To the south, the blue light bends inland, arching over the dim inland towns. Summer is hidden, an ark of leaves now sinking deep in time. It shrinks small, till it is like a green star glimmering through dark shadows.
The boat turns, and the sail swings over. The cold viridian mass of the sea rises up through the hurling spray. The sun dazzles. We surge towards the shore. A large bird, like a gull, is gliding low above the water. It tilts and sways as it glides, shearing the waves with the tips of its wings. Its long wings beat quickly; then it glides again, holding them stiffly out in a straight and level line. They are marked with grey and white. The short, thick-set body is mostly pure white. It has a prominent, rather duck-like bill, a short thick neck, and a very short tail. Its wing-beat is lighter, faster, and more flexible, than a gull’s. It is strong and effortless, propelling the bird forward at great speed. Now we are closer, I can see that it is a fulmar. Its wings simply flex and straighten, yet it moves as fast as a mallard. It seems to hiss through the air. The long yellow bill, thick and ornate, protrudes from the high white forehead and the stout neck. The face, the mask, has a dolphin expression, placid and serene in profile, grim and forbidding from in front. The fulmar flies to the north, never checking or pausing, gliding and beating away with no slackening of speed or alteration of rhythm. It seems as powerful and tireless in motion as the sea itself.
The huge and glittering headlands of slate rise slowly from the sea, like defaced idols. The rocks of the shore appear, with the white waves towering above them. A falcon dashes away from the rocks, hurling low across the surface of the sea. It is a merlin, an adult male, shining blue in the sunlight. Far above him, and a hundred yards in front, a flock of ringed plover is flying, like a net of gleaming stars. The merlin dips and sways above the water, light and swift as the tongue of a snake. He whips away great spans of air with sharp wings that quiver up and down like flickering spokes. He flies faster, springing and leaping forward, his wings shimmering as though they were beneath the surface of the water. I can see only the glitter of their vibration. The narrow, attenuated stem of the hawk’s body darts violently from side to side. He draws level with the ringed plover, but keeps low. Then he rises, curving up through the bright air as though thrown up on the curve of a great wheel. He shines upward in a sudden crescent of light, passes between the plover, and tilts over, and down, and back to the waves that rise to meet him. Again he sweeps upward, piercing the flock. He is below them, among them, through them, above them, through them, beneath them. They scatter like sparks. He rises beyond them, but does not strike again. His wings wither away in flashes of blue light. They shrink into stillness as he disappears to the south. He becomes a shining star that quickly dims into the salt air. The day resumes its warmth. The ringed plover go back to feed upon the shore. The merlin has flown into a different sky.
A cormorant passes overhead, gaunt and ragged, like a burnt gannet. A buzzard circles high to the south, above the hidden wood. Little terns are hunting off-shore, flying to and fro above the shallows. The first bird to see a fish calls excitedly before hovering and plunging down between the rocks. It drops with a tremendous splash into water just deep enough to cover it. Other little terns fly up in response to the call, and they also hover and dive for fish. The first bird is successful sometimes, the other never.
The land comes steadily forward. The headlands move apart, and a small bay is revealed. The boat rides through into calmer water, and the shuddering sail subsides. I step up on to the stone of the harbour wall, heavy with hot sunlight, dazed by the colours of the sea.
 
 
It seems strange that it should still be morning, with the untouched inland day rising above me. I climb the steep path to the top, sleepy in the warm air of the cliff. A whitethroat sings in the dry brambles. Slowly the sea sinks down. The fierce green and grey of the swell is smoothed away, reaching out to the horizon in a level haze of pure cobalt blue, edged with a narrow ermine of white foam, deepening to purple where the long cloud-shadows move steadily eastward. It is impossible to believe now in the alien power and pounding hostility of the sea. It basks down there in the sun, looking as calm as the breeze-ruffled surface of a lake on which innumerable dark blue petals are floating.
I rest at the top of the cliff. Gulls call and glide above. The dry, metallic song of a rock pipit drifts slowly down to the beach. A kestrel hangs high and motionless above the shining yellow and white flowers that almost hide the green grass of the meadow. The path leads down the slope of a valley to a lane that ends suddenly a hundred yards from the edge of the cliff. Deep in the valley there is a small church, very quiet and still beneath its plume of noisy jackdaws.
From the hill above the church I can look across the combes and uplands to the grey line of the moor. It rises into the southern sky like a perpetual winter, remote in both time and distance. It has its own light and climate, its own clouds, mist, sun, and rain. It is like the ultimate reality, the ruin of the earth, the sea risen inland.
 
 
The road to the moor winds between tall hedges, through deep valleys, and over low, undulating hills. The gorse is bright with blossom, there is a smell of hay and honeysuckle, bees drone in the flowers, and many birds sing. Gradually the trees thin out, there are fewer farms and cottages, the road rises and does not descend again.
 
 
A corn bunting sings from the last leaning boundary wall. The white farmhouse moves slowly back and down, becoming a white speck upon a green plain. The air changes. It is colder, sharper now. The wind hisses softly through the dry grass. Small brown streams ripple over grey stones. Many skylarks sing. But in the brief pauses between their songs, the unbroken silence seems to move around me with an immense and primitive power. This is the moor, the rejected land of granite, the green desert of the plutonic rock.
There are no trees or bushes here. Only the weathered grey stones of the tors rise above the undulating olive surface of the grass and heather. The brilliant emerald green of the sphagnum moss, and the white tassels of the cotton-grass, shine in the boggy places. Much of the moor is wet to walk upon, the hidden water glinting through the green. There are fewer skylarks now, but many meadow pipits are singing. Their slanting cadences, quieter and more musical than the song of the rock pipit, descend like countless threads of shining gossamer.
The sudden declarative call of a buzzard rings through the desolate air. It is a loud ‘pee-oo’, emphatic and intimidating. The bird is circling high above, sailing easily round, searching for rabbits. It gleams golden-brown in the sun, broad-winged, and dense with feathers. A raven flies towards the buzzard, uttering its deep uvular croak, a dark and resonant vibration. It has the small-eyed menacing look of a black bull. The shaggy dewlap of its throat still quivers. It dives at the buzzard, drives it downward, and chases it beyond the skyline.
The afternoon sun is warm, but summer is banished by the unrelenting wind. The moorland air is never mellowed by any change of season. Here on the higher slopes there are few birds. Nothing moves but the grass, the dry blades bending over into a thin yellow haze. Far below me a curlew calls. Large grey-lichened stones litter the slopes, like the droppings of some great animal. The skull of a sheep shines in the sun. Clouds move endlessly across the sky, but the sun is seldom lost. There is a smell of peat, of the acid water of the boggy ground. A distant rock, a small white dot against the sky, is hidden for a moment by the tawny shadow of a fox. Nothing changes. The silence is complete. The world beyond is dead.
 
 
At the highest point of the moor there is a small grey stone that seems to flutter in the wind. When I move closer, I can see that the wings of a snipe are moving on the stone. A merlin ate the snipe there earlier in the day, leaving the wings and feathers of his kill. The stone is dark with bloodstains. It is like a place of sacrifice. The merlins must have been carrying their prey to this stone for many years. There are other kills. The feathers of skylarks and meadow pipits move softly in the wind.
The male merlin is the size of a mistle thrush; the female is larger, almost as big as a kestrel. In level flight a merlin appears to move faster than any other hawk. This may be an illusion created by the remarkably rapid wing-beat, by the small size of the bird, and by its habit of flying just above the ground where it is difficult to see. But the apparent speed is astonishing. The male can almost vanish into a film of flickering wings. He twists and turns as abruptly as a swallow, very light and buoyant, but he seldom glides. It is as though his wings must be used constantly to keep him close to the ground, as though he were in danger of lifting suddenly up into the sky, of escaping completely from the power of the air.
 
 
Time drifts steadily away in the wind, the arc of the sun burns slowly down to the west. I am lost in the meditation of endless movement, in the flowing away of the clouds, in the drifting of the seeds of grass, in the sinking of hidden water towards the fulfilment of the sea. I am at the mercy of motion, tethered by the stones of the moor but ready to depart, to dive into the waiting sky.
Far down the green slope to the south there is a sudden agitation of the grass. Now it is closer, a dark occlusion of the dazzling sphagnum. Twenty yards away a tufted mound of white cotton-grass turns to misty blue. It is the male merlin, silent, alert, watching me with large brown eyes that shine and dim with the opal reflections of the passing clouds. The blue of his back seems to darken as he perches, slowly declining to dull grey. His chest is rust-coloured, yellowish, flecked with black, blending with the wind-bent blades of the withering grass. There is a faint tremor of wings, a brief pricking of primaries against the sky, a declining undulation of blue light. He had gone.
 
 
The sun is low now, and there is no warmth. The silence here is like a slow dusk spreading out upon the moor. The sun still shines, but the cold night air is descending. I leave the high places, and go down through the long shadows of the hills. The last lark sings, curlew and lapwing call in the valleys of the lost streams. The silence of night moves over me. The moor sinks slowly down, into the Cambrian darkness.

The heavy sun pressed down; heat smote upward from the water-shimmering road. The hot sun numbed the mind; cool rushes of green shade revived. A warm breeze stifled in the solid trees. All sound was dry. A fume of summer coiled upon the fields.
Blind cars had made their kill. Many birds lay shattered in the road: blackbirds, thrushes, and starlings, were pulped and flattened in the sanded tar. A rat, a mole, and a rabbit, had been reduced to rusty stain. Traffic made the insects rise. Swifts came down to feed, cutting between cars, bouncing in the hot metallic glare. Low down in front of wheels the thin dark shapes cut through. Fifty miles an hour was simple to them; merely the speed they started from. Like black-ripping many-bladed knives, they flung ahead, crisping across windscreens, blurring into light, unseen, untouched, gathering their prey. The insects that were left were smashed to green haze upon the heated glass.
 
 
The cool, quiet river was relief. The hot snarl of the distant road was soothed away. Slender damsel-flies, dark blue points of light, were hovering in the sharp green reeds. Something like a wisp of smoke – but it was not smoke – five feet high, and twirling, came quickly through the tall grass. It was like a thin mist rising. Grass bent before it. There was a hissing. Trees leaned away, and leaves moved frantically. Then the silvery spiral died into the river. It was a whirlwind, created by the heat, and sent spinning across fields to find its water-quenching.
Under willows, among the close-growing yellow stems of tall, tufted reeds, a reed warbler sang. His small, soft body trembled with the sound. His frail legs were splayed apart, each spidery foot clinging to a separate reed-stem. It was a sweet uncertainty of song, a thin, harpish resonance of repeated notes, reedy, far-carrying, wistful, always about to end yet never ending, as though the reeds themselves were singing. It is a song that will not fade into silence. It has to be listened to. The strange jerky twanging is like a forgotten language. No other bird has this lonely chant lying beneath the surface of his song. Dragonflies hovered, and settled on the green and yellow sifting of the barley. Their wings were invisible. Their narrow bodies, two inches long, were like many-jointed stems of porcelain. They clung to the barley, where they looked like hanging fragments of white twig. Small insects were lured towards this limpid whiteness, and were easily caught.
Over the flat fields of potatoes, ridged with deep green and the sleep white of blossom, the heat-haze was tall and shining. Men moved slowly on the far side of fields that seemed immense. They were bent and distorted by the haze. The weight of a great age seemed to hang upon them, as though they had moved back into the past, as though they had gone out through the shine of the now to bring back the dead to labour in the heat that was once their own. There was a throwing down of hoes, a settling of shapes into the lower haze. Then a man strode away, moving with crinkled knees, wading up towards the light. He dwindled along the dry farm road till his head was deep down and lost in the vapour of the skyline. Then the fields were empty. The haze moved gently from side to side in a slow ritual motion.
There was a faint coolness at the water’s edge, but up in the wood the heat was as solid as the dusty trees. Even where the wood had been cleared, where large bundles of faggots were lying, there was no air, no gap in the pale hot dusk. I foundered into shade, and slept for a time under the huskiness of dry-rattling branches. Beyond the wood, the sunlight stood firm and changeless in the rising wind.
 
 
I woke to the soft calling of a kestrel. It was perched in a solitary oak on the far side of the clearing, out in the shimmering mist of heat. It rose, and the blue sky slid beneath it. More sky poured under, and the sharp hawk glinted small. There was coolness for the eye in that smooth ascension. I walked across the fields between the woods. The zenith of the day was past, and the light was tilting down towards the distant shade of night. The white glare was fading to a yellowness that was like pale shadow. The air was still intensely hot, but it was broken into segments by the wind.
All the heat of the day had gathered in a valley to the north of the wood. The heavy walls of the trees were ivied with dusk; the winding light of paths faded up into the wood, and sombred away to shadow. The steep lane rose and fell beneath the evening sun, smooth and warm and shining like a sleeping snake, gliding under martins and swallows. Honeysuckle twined its cold fragrance from the passing hedge. Bracken and willow-herb shone between trees where lakes of sunlight slowly dried away. The heat floated up into the sky, and the cool evening air poured like water through the parching wood. A barn owl came flying from the east, gathering light from the glow of the fields, bearing away the aching and the glare.
The wood is remote, and secretive, under the flowing down of the day’s great heat, like an animal stretching towards sleep. Later, at the first cool touch of night, it exhales a sweet-smelling cow’s breath of hot bracken, birch leaves, and dusty bark, and that strange scent which is kindled by them and is indefinable. Then the lane is a rising and falling of heat and cold, and the horizontal fragrance of the honeysuckle whips across my face in cold white flashes, like the smell of a storm.
 
 
I went past the farm to the west of the wood, where the high barns glowed with hay, down the dusty path between the dry rustling of the corn, and out into the sand-coloured stubble of the big hayfield. The bales of hay were standing far apart, or leaning together in clusters, scattered irregularly across the field. Some bales were seven feet tall, some only three or four. They were already fading to dull yellow, the compressed grass withered and dry, and sere as reeds. But I could not believe the grass was dead. Hay has no beginning, and no end. It is a suspension between life and death. The bales were damp on the eastern side, where the sun had not yet dried them. I could not smell the hay till I pressed my face against its prickly warmth. The possessive reek of a fox hung in the heavy air. Already the green and white striped stubble was soaking with dew. Many blackbirds, thrushes, and starlings, were feeding in the aftermath. Skylarks sang up into the sky’s vast globe of pearl; swifts and swallows flickered at the rim, like fins. Rabbits leapt at the edges of the fields, in and out of the long shadows.
Close to the wood, a flock of lapwings was calling and running forward. There were thirty of them, moving like a darkness over the pale gleam of stubble and the paler gleam of the ungathered hay. They flew up into the yellow sunlight, changing from black and white to a revolving of green and blue, blue-black and orange. Thrushes and tree pipits sang beside the wood. The mower has left a fringe of buttercups, and some tall grass still stands, looking now a strange, deep, foreign green. The heavy-shaded oaks, whose branches reach out like dark wings above the edges of the field, seem lighter now the grass is down. The flat shine of the stubble is reflected on the undersides of the leaves. The light of the grass has fallen. It lies like a Pharoah in the sweet embalmment of the hay. In a mown field there is always something floating, just above the ground, invisible, impalpable. The air that moved between the grasses seems to be still hovering there. The whole field floats upward. Its weight is in the bales; the rest is buoyant, like a rising sea. Far above the sun, high clouds of cirrus shone like silver wisps of hay.
 
 
Leaving the field, I walked slowly up the path beside the larch wood. It was nine o’clock. A wren sang briefly, and left the silence tingling. Deep down in the oaks to the north, there was the submerged sound of distant woodpigeons singing. The bracken smelt fresh in the open, but under the oaks and larches it was rank and decaying. Suddenly there was a sharp, sweet scent, rather sickly and female. It seemed to come from the grass of the ride, but when I bent down to look closer, it had gone. There was no flower there. Seen from low down, the bracken to the south was high and hemlock-dark; the rosebay willow-herb shone like stands of purple pine. The sun was pencilled with clouds. It sank beneath them, red and gold, and rested on the skyline. The oaks and larches of the wood were crossed with a last touch of fire. Fox-flames burnt briefly upon bark, a splash of liquid colour. Hot golden light burnt deep, branding the trees with a ring of fire. Then it suddenly withdrew, retracted in long flashes across fields, and whipped downward with the sinking sun. What a god-denying betrayal it must have seemed to the first men, to find that the sun would not float upon cloud or water, but would always sink, would always plunge into the skyline, never to be dug up again, burrowing like a golden mole to burst at morning into eastern air.
One by one the thrushes stopped singing. The only bird-sound left was a distant piety of robins. I went back towards the hayfield. Colder air was already piercing the warmth of the ride. Everything was very still, quieter since the setting of the sun. The sun is silent, yet unconsciously we may be aware of its endlessly roaring flames, like the far whisper of an unseen waterfall. Three mallard flew down into the red gulf of the sunset. A late swift chafed the zenith of the cooling sky. Over and through and over the long hedge that slants around the field, a male sparrowhawk came weaving and fanning and gliding. He drifted up into an oak, and was held there by the dark boughs. Nothing came away. Through the moonlight of my binoculars, I saw him standing on a branch, dwarfish and malevolent, his ringed eye dulling to an ashen core. Dusk-coloured, he crouched and waited in the night of the tree. Every twig seemed to vein inwards to the fevered heart of the hawk. Then spasm, contortion; he grazed across the light, swerving like a bat. He was chasing a bat. He could not catch it. He wrenched away, and dropped with choking suddenness on to the song of a robin. Somewhere in the silver water of the birches there was a wild splashing of wings. Then all was quiet. The song came again, but not the hawk.
 
 
The sky was still bright above the hayfield. Near the hedge, up against the western horizon, a fox was sitting on a bale of hay. He peered downwards, walked along a line of bales, then stopped to wash himself. Rabbits fed nearby, but they were not alarmed. Occasionally the fox leapt into the air like a kitten, back legs leaving the ground, front legs waving, jaw snapping shut as he tried to catch moths. He was a thin-looking fox, with big pointed ears, very red and white. Suddenly he jumped away from the bales and trotted quickly down into a gulley. Rabbits scuttled into the hedge. The fox re-appeared, much closer now. He watched the rabbits, but did not follow them. He came towards me, head held low, the fluffy red fur of his chest ruffling as he ran. He was a large cub, still rather woolly, with bandy, wobbly-looking legs. Five yards away he saw my feet, and stopped. He stared at them. Very slowly he raised his head and looked higher, but his eyes did not focus on my face. They seemed not to rise above waist-level. In the half-light they looked dull brown, with dark treacly pupils. I could sense his sudden gasp, his long indrawn breath, his prolonged tremor of wonder, of bewilderment, of fear, of indecision. He bucked, throwing up his hind legs, as a rabbit does. He sank down, and looked up at me from a different angle. Then he turned, and ran away. His white-tipped tail was dark, darker than his body. It filled with air and looked thick and solid as he ran.
 
 
I went down towards the wood. A tawny owl called ‘kee-wick’, the first true sound of night. Slowly I walked down the long slope of the field and up into the hushed unanimity of oaks that rose on the far side. As I came nearer, they seemed to move apart. Their stillness was dark and immense, a weight upon the eyes, a pressing-in of the ear-drums. The afterglow in the west reddened the trees’ rough bark. I touched it to be sure that it was not some strange luminosity that would come off on to my fingers. My hand cast a faint shadow. The sun had set half an hour before. It was the stillness of the trees that made them so vividly alive. They seemed to be holding themselves upright in a tall silence, like hunters that do not wish to be seen. They were drawing together across the last remaining light, closing in, massing. The soft greyness of the wood was hardening to a unity of black; inimical, if you believe the dumb are your enemies.
The scent of the wood was stronger now, a rich warmth flowing outwards like a river of leaves. The field was damp and cold with the dew. The white-starred elders held wisps of heat above the dark skull of the rabbit warren. Delicate, thin-stepping, a fox trotted by, like a wind walking softly through the grass. A heron flew westward, black-winged and ponderous with the night to come. The white flakes of the ghost moths fumbled at the bracken. Stones gleamed white in the dry earth, and dead grass shone. A dozen noctule bats came out of the wood with a rush, like a dry crepitation of fluttering hands. The larched air was foiled and wrinkled with their leathery swarming. They swooped and curved over the whitening sky, capturing insects. A smoke of sounds drifted from the distant village: the fraying bark of a dog, a dusk of voices.
The tawny owl’s dark release of song quavered from the pine wood. The sleek dusk bristled with it, like the fur of a cat. I moved under the gloomy trees. The owl surfed out across the rising night. He could hear the turn of a dry leaf, the relaxing of a twig, the loud scamper of a soft-skinned mouse. To him the silence was a flare of sound, a brilliant day of noises dazzling through the veins of dusk. Lynchets of light were striped over the dark ground, and he could interpret them, like forgotten field-shapes found from high above. The wood rose beneath him, dominioned like a wolf’s mane, black and silver-grey. Then the map of darkness streamed with a flight of glittering eyes; and the thin sound of a mouse-death whined high in the heavy air.
 
 
Under the oppressive warmth of the oaks, I waited for the nightjar to appear, but by ten o’clock it still had not called or sung. Two hawks flitted low above the bracken, like the shadows of small hands clenching and unclenching. They spurted along, dancing on the tips of their wings, like rays finning along the bottom of the sea. One was chasing the other, but could see no more than that. They were sudden leaps of darkness, and then nothing. A badger blundered through the bracken, making more noise than a man. It was going down to drink at the stream. A pipistrelle bat twitched and tugged at the light. The nightjar did not sing till ten minutes past ten, fifty minutes after sunset. He perched on a dead tree, but I could hardly see him. The still air throbbed almost painfully with the dryness of his song. Then came the sudden ending, the whirring bubble-notes, and the weird wing-smacking. Most exciting of all was the silence, when I did not know where he was, when the whole dusk seemed to be leaping and gliding with long, light wings, seemed to be hoarse and gaping with wide, moth-catching, sack-like mouths.
Five minutes later there were two nightjars in the clearing, just visible when they crossed the zenith of the sky. All light came from above. It had withdrawn completely from the ground, even from the whitest of the big flinty stones. The nightjars chased between the trees, looping and turning in narrow circles, slashing the smooth velvet dusk, threading darkness through the light. They flew low above the bracken. I heard a deep purring sound rising from them as they sank down. It was very different from the song. This was a deep-throated, softer sound, a vibrant humming, like the ecstatic purring of a tiger. It seemed to grip and shake the darkness, dizzying low, spreading over the ground like murmuring water. Its warm vibration sucked at my ears. The birds came close to me. I saw the white spots on the wings of the male, and the white tips of his outer tail feathers, like chips of white wood whirring across the bracken. Then they had gone, sinking and slurring down into the dark valley, leaving the air colder, void, and the night suddenly descending.
 
 
I went back to the hayfield. Lapwings scattered, and called loudly. Their calling is always louder at night, a sharp emphatic ‘pee-wit’, with a pause between the syllables. The smell of the hay was stronger, sweeter now; the whole field was adrift with it. It was the smell of raw green death, exuberant, nostalgic, piercing; the sour sweetness of decay, the earth itself in flower. Breathing it, I seemed to become lighter, aerial. I ran through the dark field, ran between the tall trilithons of the hay bales that leant against the sky like the tilted circle of Stonehenge. It seemed that deep in the ground, far below in the past, men were lifting the hay towards me. And I could bend to meet them, passing my arms down through the stiffness of the earth to receive the death of grass, the midsummer changing of the grass into the dry papyrus of the living hay.
The moon rose from the dark rim of the wood, a red arc flaming upward like a fire rising, turning from red to orange, from orange to a circle of deep yellow. The hay bales flung their long shadows from them, like a silent flinging out of wings. The hay was white as frost. The trees were darker now the moon had risen. I walked through the pine wood. The grass in the rides had been cut and left to dry. It swished softly over my feet. The pines and spruces were black beside me, but up in the moonlight, high above, they were blue, deep blue, like the draped wings of the magpie that hung glittering down from the dead gallows-tree. A tawny owl rushed from branch to branch, as fast and light as a hawk. A hawk would have seemed almost cumbersome compared with this cloud-soft throwing forward of the silence.
Over the hayfield, the nightjar leapt and glided, swayed and fluttered, black and silver-white in the phosphorescence that seemed to scatter like spray from his moonlit wings. He perched on the tall bales, breathing out the dark snake of his song to fork and flicker at the moon. He was curious, and quite without fear. He followed me as I walked across the field, circling above my head, beating his wings and leaping upward: a soft, slow beat, a brief pause, then the incredibly light and buoyant lifting, springing up through the damp air like dark flame rising from the mouth of his wings. With wide-open bill he netted the big ghost moths that twisted away like white lips over the bracken feathering my hands.
Clouds hid the moon. The night sank into shadow, and soft owl-voices raised the trees. After eleven o’clock the nightjar did not sing so often. His song was briefer, less loud, less fervent, more even in pitch and tone. Between midnight and two o’clock I heard him twice. He did not come back to the dead tree. He sang occasionally after three o’clock, but he was silent long before sunrise. I did not know where his nest was, and in the complete darkness I was afraid to walk far in case I should tread upon it.
Reed warblers sang at midnight along the moonlit stream, a sound that hovered like a shining mist. But when the moon had gone, I could see nothing. Only my hands could tell the black air from the black bark. The clouds seemed to be very low, hanging like cobwebs between the tops of trees, dragging clammily across my face. The dense midsummer smell of the birch leaves had dispersed in the cold air. A badger screamed, a long, gurgling tusk of sound curving up into the darkness and twisting loose into a gash of foamy white. Bats creaked among the trees. The returning silence, the silence encircling me, moving inwards, inwards, like silent wings, was the sound of night. The mind seemed to open like a flower to let the silence enter, wings folding within, thousands of dark wings folding down into the darkness of the mind. I clung to the bracken, hung helplessly in sleep from the dark mane of the spinning world.
 
 
By two o’clock there was a paler darkness in the eastern sky. It grew and spread till it was brighter than the returning moon, brighter than the afterglow of sunset, a great arch of light burning away the starry edge, curving over the darkness above me, dwindling it down, flaring behind the horizon till all was clear and new again. The earth had risen.
A carrion crow called, defiling the light with the black imprint of his wings. The sky was blue and wet and shivering. The first lark sang. The sun rose, and black shadows fled across the blazing rainbow dew-shine of the starry grass. The hayfield lay prone beneath the sunlight, no longer aerial. Apocalyptic bird-song rang from wood to wood.
I went down to the lane, dazed by the brilliance of the day, my mind still webbed with night’s fading blackness, with the darkness that even in the brightest sunlight never completely dies. We have our darkness within us, our beating hearts are black, our limbs move in black nets of muscle; light enters our bodies only through the sudden wound.

Out here is the true smell of the sea, very salt and liquid, like cold salt water flooding the nostrils with sudden fear. The wind is chlorine-coloured; it shines, it shines with speed. The boat dives forward through mouths of glittering foam. The sail cracks like a whip upon the wind. The shore recedes, the cliffsinks down, the land narrows to a thin grey splinter. The raised jaw of a speedboat passes, swallowing water. There is a pale haze in the centre of the western sky, where the wind is rising. The sail is like a white fin curving from the foam. To the south, the blue light bends inland, arching over the dim inland towns. Summer is hidden, an ark of leaves now sinking deep in time. It shrinks small, till it is like a green star glimmering through dark shadows.
The boat turns, and the sail swings over. The cold viridian mass of the sea rises up through the hurling spray. The sun dazzles. We surge towards the shore. A large bird, like a gull, is gliding low above the water. It tilts and sways as it glides, shearing the waves with the tips of its wings. Its long wings beat quickly; then it glides again, holding them stiffly out in a straight and level line. They are marked with grey and white. The short, thick-set body is mostly pure white. It has a prominent, rather duck-like bill, a short thick neck, and a very short tail. Its wing-beat is lighter, faster, and more flexible, than a gull’s. It is strong and effortless, propelling the bird forward at great speed. Now we are closer, I can see that it is a fulmar. Its wings simply flex and straighten, yet it moves as fast as a mallard. It seems to hiss through the air. The long yellow bill, thick and ornate, protrudes from the high white forehead and the stout neck. The face, the mask, has a dolphin expression, placid and serene in profile, grim and forbidding from in front. The fulmar flies to the north, never checking or pausing, gliding and beating away with no slackening of speed or alteration of rhythm. It seems as powerful and tireless in motion as the sea itself.
The huge and glittering headlands of slate rise slowly from the sea, like defaced idols. The rocks of the shore appear, with the white waves towering above them. A falcon dashes away from the rocks, hurling low across the surface of the sea. It is a merlin, an adult male, shining blue in the sunlight. Far above him, and a hundred yards in front, a flock of ringed plover is flying, like a net of gleaming stars. The merlin dips and sways above the water, light and swift as the tongue of a snake. He whips away great spans of air with sharp wings that quiver up and down like flickering spokes. He flies faster, springing and leaping forward, his wings shimmering as though they were beneath the surface of the water. I can see only the glitter of their vibration. The narrow, attenuated stem of the hawk’s body darts violently from side to side. He draws level with the ringed plover, but keeps low. Then he rises, curving up through the bright air as though thrown up on the curve of a great wheel. He shines upward in a sudden crescent of light, passes between the plover, and tilts over, and down, and back to the waves that rise to meet him. Again he sweeps upward, piercing the flock. He is below them, among them, through them, above them, through them, beneath them. They scatter like sparks. He rises beyond them, but does not strike again. His wings wither away in flashes of blue light. They shrink into stillness as he disappears to the south. He becomes a shining star that quickly dims into the salt air. The day resumes its warmth. The ringed plover go back to feed upon the shore. The merlin has flown into a different sky.
A cormorant passes overhead, gaunt and ragged, like a burnt gannet. A buzzard circles high to the south, above the hidden wood. Little terns are hunting off-shore, flying to and fro above the shallows. The first bird to see a fish calls excitedly before hovering and plunging down between the rocks. It drops with a tremendous splash into water just deep enough to cover it. Other little terns fly up in response to the call, and they also hover and dive for fish. The first bird is successful sometimes, the other never.
The land comes steadily forward. The headlands move apart, and a small bay is revealed. The boat rides through into calmer water, and the shuddering sail subsides. I step up on to the stone of the harbour wall, heavy with hot sunlight, dazed by the colours of the sea.
 
 
It seems strange that it should still be morning, with the untouched inland day rising above me. I climb the steep path to the top, sleepy in the warm air of the cliff. A whitethroat sings in the dry brambles. Slowly the sea sinks down. The fierce green and grey of the swell is smoothed away, reaching out to the horizon in a level haze of pure cobalt blue, edged with a narrow ermine of white foam, deepening to purple where the long cloud-shadows move steadily eastward. It is impossible to believe now in the alien power and pounding hostility of the sea. It basks down there in the sun, looking as calm as the breeze-ruffled surface of a lake on which innumerable dark blue petals are floating.
I rest at the top of the cliff. Gulls call and glide above. The dry, metallic song of a rock pipit drifts slowly down to the beach. A kestrel hangs high and motionless above the shining yellow and white flowers that almost hide the green grass of the meadow. The path leads down the slope of a valley to a lane that ends suddenly a hundred yards from the edge of the cliff. Deep in the valley there is a small church, very quiet and still beneath its plume of noisy jackdaws.
From the hill above the church I can look across the combes and uplands to the grey line of the moor. It rises into the southern sky like a perpetual winter, remote in both time and distance. It has its own light and climate, its own clouds, mist, sun, and rain. It is like the ultimate reality, the ruin of the earth, the sea risen inland.
 
 
The road to the moor winds between tall hedges, through deep valleys, and over low, undulating hills. The gorse is bright with blossom, there is a smell of hay and honeysuckle, bees drone in the flowers, and many birds sing. Gradually the trees thin out, there are fewer farms and cottages, the road rises and does not descend again.
 
 
A corn bunting sings from the last leaning boundary wall. The white farmhouse moves slowly back and down, becoming a white speck upon a green plain. The air changes. It is colder, sharper now. The wind hisses softly through the dry grass. Small brown streams ripple over grey stones. Many skylarks sing. But in the brief pauses between their songs, the unbroken silence seems to move around me with an immense and primitive power. This is the moor, the rejected land of granite, the green desert of the plutonic rock.
There are no trees or bushes here. Only the weathered grey stones of the tors rise above the undulating olive surface of the grass and heather. The brilliant emerald green of the sphagnum moss, and the white tassels of the cotton-grass, shine in the boggy places. Much of the moor is wet to walk upon, the hidden water glinting through the green. There are fewer skylarks now, but many meadow pipits are singing. Their slanting cadences, quieter and more musical than the song of the rock pipit, descend like countless threads of shining gossamer.
The sudden declarative call of a buzzard rings through the desolate air. It is a loud ‘pee-oo’, emphatic and intimidating. The bird is circling high above, sailing easily round, searching for rabbits. It gleams golden-brown in the sun, broad-winged, and dense with feathers. A raven flies towards the buzzard, uttering its deep uvular croak, a dark and resonant vibration. It has the small-eyed menacing look of a black bull. The shaggy dewlap of its throat still quivers. It dives at the buzzard, drives it downward, and chases it beyond the skyline.
The afternoon sun is warm, but summer is banished by the unrelenting wind. The moorland air is never mellowed by any change of season. Here on the higher slopes there are few birds. Nothing moves but the grass, the dry blades bending over into a thin yellow haze. Far below me a curlew calls. Large grey-lichened stones litter the slopes, like the droppings of some great animal. The skull of a sheep shines in the sun. Clouds move endlessly across the sky, but the sun is seldom lost. There is a smell of peat, of the acid water of the boggy ground. A distant rock, a small white dot against the sky, is hidden for a moment by the tawny shadow of a fox. Nothing changes. The silence is complete. The world beyond is dead.
 
 
At the highest point of the moor there is a small grey stone that seems to flutter in the wind. When I move closer, I can see that the wings of a snipe are moving on the stone. A merlin ate the snipe there earlier in the day, leaving the wings and feathers of his kill. The stone is dark with bloodstains. It is like a place of sacrifice. The merlins must have been carrying their prey to this stone for many years. There are other kills. The feathers of skylarks and meadow pipits move softly in the wind.
The male merlin is the size of a mistle thrush; the female is larger, almost as big as a kestrel. In level flight a merlin appears to move faster than any other hawk. This may be an illusion created by the remarkably rapid wing-beat, by the small size of the bird, and by its habit of flying just above the ground where it is difficult to see. But the apparent speed is astonishing. The male can almost vanish into a film of flickering wings. He twists and turns as abruptly as a swallow, very light and buoyant, but he seldom glides. It is as though his wings must be used constantly to keep him close to the ground, as though he were in danger of lifting suddenly up into the sky, of escaping completely from the power of the air.
 
 
Time drifts steadily away in the wind, the arc of the sun burns slowly down to the west. I am lost in the meditation of endless movement, in the flowing away of the clouds, in the drifting of the seeds of grass, in the sinking of hidden water towards the fulfilment of the sea. I am at the mercy of motion, tethered by the stones of the moor but ready to depart, to dive into the waiting sky.
Far down the green slope to the south there is a sudden agitation of the grass. Now it is closer, a dark occlusion of the dazzling sphagnum. Twenty yards away a tufted mound of white cotton-grass turns to misty blue. It is the male merlin, silent, alert, watching me with large brown eyes that shine and dim with the opal reflections of the passing clouds. The blue of his back seems to darken as he perches, slowly declining to dull grey. His chest is rust-coloured, yellowish, flecked with black, blending with the wind-bent blades of the withering grass. There is a faint tremor of wings, a brief pricking of primaries against the sky, a declining undulation of blue light. He had gone.
 
 
The sun is low now, and there is no warmth. The silence here is like a slow dusk spreading out upon the moor. The sun still shines, but the cold night air is descending. I leave the high places, and go down through the long shadows of the hills. The last lark sings, curlew and lapwing call in the valleys of the lost streams. The silence of night moves over me. The moor sinks slowly down, into the Cambrian darkness.
There is a smell of change in the still air. The dense summer darkness is fading from the sky. The white glint of water spreads out like a slow wave. It reaches the far bank. The grey river mist rises from the hidden grass, haunts up into the shapes of trees. A moorhen calls. I hear the splash of a water vole, the muffled voice of a late owl, the distant song of a blackbird. The horns of cattle emerge from the mist. The boat moves forward into the cold and shrivelled scent of the wet hay. The smell of the morning river glides slowly back from the blades of the damp oars.
The mist shines with the silver light of the sharp-leaved willows. Between the trees there are sudden distances, spaces of air and mist, where poplars and hawthorns hover and sink down. A net of branches seems to impede the ascension of the sun’s pale circle. Sedge warblers and whitethroats sing in the riverside bushes. Reeds move harshly in the rising breeze. The sun glows, and the first faint shadows darken the glistening fields with the fallen shapes of night.
 
 
The boat ripples through the unfamiliar light of the water. Nettles and willow-herb slide past on either side. The sun has kindled the smell of meadowsweet. There is a slow growth of sound: bird-song, the splashing of fish, the rustling of poplar leaves. A yellow wagtail runs through the grass at the top of the bank. Its dazzling daffodil colour is reflected in the wet grass, and in the river beneath, as it peers over the edge.
The prismatic gleam of a kingfisher rises from the surface of the water to perch on an overhanging willow branch. The cobalt and emerald sheen of its plumage seems to fade when it withdraws from the brilliant river light. Slowly it becomes more difficult to see, merging with the green of the leaves and the mossy bark. The blades of its bill rest harmlessly in the dull orange feathers of its chest. Its closed wings reach almost to the tip of its stumpy tail, giving it a neat, compact shape, ornamental and disarming. But the restless eyes watch the dark olive river. The kingfisher is always ready to fall, to seize a fish from the sudden blue cloud of the broken water. It flies as the boat approaches, flashing silver-blue and green and red through the stripes of dusk and sunlight, glittering like the auroral dew. It hovers momentarily above the shallows, but it does not strike.
Where the kingfisher hovered, five roach are swimming very slowly against the current so that they remain stationary. They are two feet down, watching the sunlit surface. Occasionally a fish rises without haste, opening its mouth slowly and closing it quickly upon the air at the surface with a just audible smacking sound. They are catching insects. They look very long and thin, pink-lipped, with silver scales and orange fins. Their tails wave constantly from side to side as they keep their positions in the current. Suddenly they dive vertically downwards with the flurry of fins. A water vole is swimming across the river, holding a dock leaf between its teeth. Its head is held well up, so that the leaf stays dry. It lands upon mud, and runs into the rushes.
A minute later the vole reappears, and swims back to the other bank. It is a sleek brown shape, misty and long in the water. Its small eyes, close together near the top of its head, shine with reflected sunlight as they watch the boat. Its tail is a straight pale line. It moves quickly, easily, furrowing the surface. It runs into a tunnel in the overhanging bank, but emerges at once and begins to eat grass. The lower half of its body is immersed in the river. Gradually it climbs the steep slope of grass, standing up on its back legs till it is almost vertical. Its small white fore-feet pull the blades of grass towards its teeth. It nibbles and chews rapidly, nose twitching, thick white tail hanging limply down. Its long fur gleams with a soft grey bloom of moisture, a delicate light that is watery blue in the sun, as though its bulky body were enclosed in a bubble of mist. The wind-ruffled fur is dun-coloured, neutral in tone. It could be green or grey or brown, elusive as muddy water. On either side of the nose there are tawny markings, like rust. The eyes are blue-grey, filmy and bright, but feeble, like the eyes of an elderly man. When the boat goes by, the vole drops into the river and swims towards its tunnel. The sun and the air are dangerous, only water and darkness are safe.
Sand martins rise endlessly over the drying hayfields, descending occasionally to make low, brief swoops at the surface of the river. They are small, pale brown birds, curiously fish-like. Their brown colouring has a tint of sepia. The primary feathers of their wings are a darker brown, long and flexible. They fly above the fields, rising gradually to two hundred feet; then they rush wildly down to skim the rippling water. Swallows also fly low to the river. They are slower than the sand martins, but more graceful. Their dark gliding streams the green light with fading lines of purple.
 
 
The morning passes imperceptibly. The monotony of land-time is lost in the boat’s slow forward movement, in the steady rhythm of the oars, in the flowing back of the banks on either side, in the rise and fall of the fields. The time of the river has no measurable progression. It surges and slackens and sinks down with the songs of the birds and the sounds of the trees. Intention wavers, and purposes cloud. Time is the wings of the heron, the call of the unseen plover, the wind in the harp of the reeds.
 
 
Slowly the river widens, the banks recede and dip down. There is more land, more water. A lake appears in the distance ahead, glowing with fiery light. But soon I can see that it is not a lake. It is a larger river, alarming in its huge, disdainful breadth, its cold depth and expansiveness of air. I turn the boat into this new, indifferent world, and row upstream, keeping close to the southern bank. Large white clouds shine upon the water. They seem to sink, and change their shape completely, before they drift beneath the fields. Looking up, I am almost surprised to see them still moving northward through the burning heat of the sky.
The musical trill of a little grebe ascends from the sheltering reeds. There is a yellow gleam of irises among the pink blossoms of the flowering rush. The south wind is languished by the warm smell of the white clover, stronger now than the fume of the hay. The black crest of a heron rises from the tall grass of the towpath. The kinked white neck appears. The heron stalks stiffly to the water’s edge, settles the dark spiders of its feet into the mud, stands with negligent bill and gold-ringed eye intent. I pass other herons, spaced out in gaps of reed, like human fishermen. The rusting spears of their reflections lie deep in the shining water.
Where the current is slow, behind a fallen tree, a green and amber pike is lurking. His mottled skin seems to ripple with the striped yellow sunlight of the water. Above him, near the surface, bleak scurry and flash like submerged silver swallows. The beaked pike is a Silurian god, down there in the lowest stratum of the river. When he rises to attack, he dredges darkness up into the light. Within a daggered black sun of pain a bleak is seized. Fish scatter outwards like a corona of bright rays.
 
 
The water is warm now; the midday heat is like a mist upon the land. Emperor dragonflies twitch and turn above the reeds, darting in pursuit of their prey. The hawthorns that grow along the bank are shadowed by swarms of insects. From the slope of the distant wood, a hobby rises slowly and circles down wind. It swoops to the river, and dashes low across the surface. The tips of its sharp wings raise a brief flicker of shining spray. It jerks wildly from side to side, swerving, leaping, rebounding. It is trying to catch dragonflies, but I cannot see if it succeeds. The hobby wheels, and slashes the air with an outstretched leg and clutching foot; the dragonflies shine and flash in the sun. Presumably they are trying to escape, watching for the plunge of the falcon, their turreted heads swivelling and gleaming. The hobby is incredibly agile, but it cannot turn quickly enough. It relies on the fast direct rush and slash, wings vibrating in a seizure of speed. Suddenly it rises, and flies back to the wood, moving with leisured wing-beats and long glides. The dragonflies resume their hunting.
The boat moves slowly through the clouded summer heat. The river bends to the south, and the hillside wood is closer. It rises to a dark, serrated crest of pines. The oaks and chestnuts of the lower slopes are now recognisable as individual trees, but the pines do not come any nearer. They keep their sombre remoteness, their suggestion of a different country, of secrets, of some hidden death that will not be revealed. I tether the boat to an overhanging hawthorn, and clamber up on to the bank. The land seems to be tilted and infirm after the buoyant solidity of the water life.
 
 
The path to the wood is circuitous, skirting large fields of wheat and barley. The wheat is brownish-yellow, glowing with a rich russet light. The barley is whiter, blonde, with strands of green at the base of the stalks. Each stalk sways over at a different angle as the breeze moves them apart, so that the whole field breathes open and seals again with an endless ocean swell. A goldfinch flies above the fields, and the yellow colour of its wingbars seems to change suddenly to match the varying colours of the corn.
The path is covered with the white floss of the seeding willows and the fallen blossom of the elder. The leaves of the hawthorn hedge look arid and autumnal. A corn bunting sings from a dead oak. I stop beneath, but he does not fly. His tail is bent under and forward into a grotesque shape as he balances in the breeze. His bill opens very wide, but closes abruptly as the first brief stutter of the song comes out. Then it opens wider still, and stays open, with the red gape shining in the sun, while the final emphatic jingle of notes dries away into the heavy air. His wings droop and quiver as he sings. He has an intense, dedicated look as he repeats his song at frequent and regular intervals, turning his head constantly from side to side. It is a demanding ritual, to which he gives all his strength and power of concentration. A singing bird seems to be possessed by an irresistible force. The sound emitted can – to our ears – be joyful, sad, or merely dull and irritating. But to the bird the sound may be of little importance. It may be the place of utterance, and the power and frequency of the song, which matter more to him.
A yellowhammer sings from an oak a hundred yards away. The two bunting songs, so parched and dry, seem to be perfectly expressive of the heat, the glare, the dusty sunlight. Here, it is July; in the middle distance there is a September haze; at the horizon a dim November mist.
 
 
The wood trembles in the heat. All is ripe and silent. A skylark sings above, but it seems to be on the far side of a silence that is clear and solid in the heat of the sun. A cool breath comes from the trees. Lakes of rosebay willow-herb float on green light. The creamy meadowsweet smells thick and stifling. Swallows swoop down to sip from the still water of a pond. Linnets and goldfinches drink at the water’s edge.
Inside the wood, the heat is muted and withdrawn. The shade of the trees is like dark, airless sunlight. I go uphill, forcing a pathway through bracken and willow-herb. Calm foxgloves rise in serenity above the dusty nettles. The spired blossom of the Spanish chestnuts smells like meadowsweet, like the sour sweetness of new bread. To describe a wood in detail is to obscure its identity. It is essentially a field of light overgrown by trees. It is not the trees themselves that make a wood, but the shape and disposition of the remaining light, of the sky that descends between the trees. This wood seems to have no dimension. Its boundaries recede to an infinite distance, moving out into the heat of the sun, drifting away with the drowsy cooing of woodpigeons and the clouded voices of turtle doves. A chiffchaff sings, high and remote in the pines. Nothing is close, or clear. At the foot of a pine I see the wings of a swift and a swallow, the kills of a hobby. But of the hawks themselves there is no sign. I cannot find their nest. I go down through the wood, out into the heat again, and back to the river.
 
 
The jarring hardness of the land is left behind. The boat moves smoothly over the water’s cooling sky. The oars splash, and the spray glitters. The shining dace melt down into darkness. Between the tall rain of the leaf-shimmering Lombardy poplars I can smell the warm hay. It is the smell of summer, a harvest of fallen sunlight. The morning clouds have passed to the north, and the afternoon is a silent haze of heat.
Suddenly I hear the harsh grating call of a common tern. A deep and graceful white waving of wings is following the course of the river. The tern flies closer, becomes a warmth of shining white. Black head, red bill, point downwards, looking alert and menacing. Dark eyes watch the water moving back beneath them. The gentle wing-beat hastens, and becomes a hover, a quicker, more incisive fanning. The forked tail spreads out into a thin white membrane. Against the sun, the wings look almost transparent, like shapes of canvas made taut and expressive by the wind. The wings beat faster, blurring to grey. Then they close abruptly, and slide down towards the water. I see a sharp sliver of red pointing below white. The tern plunges, slicing the water with a great gulping splash. I half-expect to see a cloud of steam hiss upward from the white-hot blade. A spun-glass web of foam shatters into spray and spatters down upon the surface that has already healed beneath it. The tern flies high, swallowing his fish.
The boat passes under a dark red bridge where many house martins are flying to and from their hanging nests. Their blue backs are invisible in the gloom; their white rumps rise and fall upon the flowing air like tiny flecks of foam. The arch of the bridge is a cave of hollow sound, a twittering coldness carved from the heat of the day. The sun strikes down with renewed strength as the boat emerges.
The air is very still now, but the sailing swans give the impression of a breeze. A sedge warbler sings in a motionless aspen. It is the only sound. The purple loosestrife smoulders in the heat. High above, where immense white clouds are forming, the dark fang of a hobby falls and rises in pursuit of a house martin. It is all so far off, so remote in the glare of the sky, that I have no feeling of excitement, no sense of wonder at the power and speed of the hawk’s flight as it disappears into the haze.
 
 
I turn the boat into a narrow backwater that leads to a weir. Four swifts fly low overhead, one behind the other, screaming as they whip past, their curved wings lashing and jerking. Their shrill calls tingle through the nerves. The sun makes them look brown, shows up their white throats. Their bent shapes seem to whang away from the resistance of the air, as though they were tensile and springy, like crescents of thin black metal.
The quiet stream is heavy with sleeping grebes, moorhens, and duck. It is as though the stillness of night had been suddenly lifted into the hot pallor of the day. A grass snake parts the water into a long ripple as it swims across from the other bank. Its head is held rigidly up above the surface, but the whole length of its body is submerged, waving from side to side with a sinuous, horizontal undulation. It seems always to be sinking but it does not sink. It comes quickly towards the boat, breathing at regular intervals, with its forked tongue flicking in and out for several seconds at a time, like barbs of small dull flame. I move the oars, and it stops at once, hanging motionless in the water, trailing down into the deep green and yellow light. It stays like that for at least a minute, with its head protruding and its eyes watching me, while its body floats down below the surface as though it were already dead. Then it turns, and swims back to the bank, waving easily away into the shadows. Watching the grass snake moving so smoothly through the water, I had felt cooler, I had sloughed off the hot skin of the mottled sunlight. Now the sun resumes its power.
I moor the boat, and walk along the bank till I come to the white roar of the weir. The stream is smooth and still above the fall. The green banks, overhung with grass, darken the water with a brown reflection. Bands of light are crossed by the reflected boles of the cricket-bat willows. There is no premonition of change in this serene and glossy surface. The still reflections break suddenly where the fall begins. It is a transformation; another element supervenes, contiguous but unrelated. The dark water plunges twenty feet to become the white foam beneath. It has the sculptured solidity of endless movement. The weir rages with the translated rain of spring. There is a cold, iron smell, sinister and thrilling, of water exultant. The fall glares whiter when the sun sinks beneath the pensive water-lily clouds. The crystalline ropes of foam pour down over dim green stone into a white darkness that rushes away to the east to gradually become slow and sunlit again before it rejoins the river. The curved hieroglyphs of the thrown foam clash and curl away, luminous and evanescent, like paintings seen by fading light on the wall of a cave.
 
 
The river is deep with cumulus as I row slowly east again. Cattle are sleeping in water meadows where redshanks call. A turtle dove drinks from a cattle-trough. Nothing shines here, but the trees to the south are sharp against white thunder-heads of cloud. A dark bird swoops low over dark-shaded water. It is a black tern in summer plumage. It comes closer, and I can see the deep narcotic black of its head and breast and the heavy grey of its back. Flying fast, undulating over the shadowed water, swinging its wings with a relaxed and even rhythm, it sweeps down to meet its dark reflection rising and gathers insects from the unbroken smoothness of the surface. Poising, idling upon air, then darting down, it curves away from me and goes steadily upstream. Dark head, dark bill, dark eye; the eye alone is bright, glittering like a gem of coal. The black tern draws a cooling line through the dry metallic heat. It passes like the first cool flake of a breeze, and the heat can no longer be the same.
 
 
The birds are silent. There is no movement in the trees. The oars dip noisily into the still water. The seeds of distant rain spill down from dissolving blooms of cloud, and the sky to the south is grey and withered. The castellated brilliance, which had seemed perpetual, has suddenly gone. A little owl flies from a riverside willow to perch on a post in the field. Swallows swoop at it immediately, diving straight down at its head and forcing it to duck. They slash down with amazing hawk-like venom and persistence. Blackbirds and thrushes fly out from the trees to join in the mobbing. They beat their wings wildly about that squat and hated head, hovering and fluttering as though they intend to alight upon it. The owl ducks repeatedly to avoid these spiteful rushes, sinking and rising, bending at the knees with comical suddenness. At last it flies down into the grass, where it is harder to see. One blackbird goes down with it; the other birds disperse. The blackbird utters its monotonous scolding note unceasingly, but soon it begins to feed. Gradually its scolding falters and fades. It has apparently forgotten the little owl, which is only a yard away. The owl sleeps. When the sky darkens with storm-clouds, the owl wakes, and flies back to the willow. Blackbirds and thrushes fly into the hawthorns to roost, behaving as though it were dusk.
Dazzling white thunderheads are growing rapidly from the grey ridges of cloud to the south. They swirl up into huge mountains of intense marble whiteness, like frozen white foam. These clouds are so bright, and the rest of the sky so darkened over, that their vivid glare seems to pluck at my eyes. The thunder is closer now, echoing and profound, suggesting vast depths. Swifts circle high beneath the great cloud-boulders. They fall dizzily, with wings vibrating, the sky lifting beyond them like white fountains. A hobby falls with the swifts, but is suddenly hidden as the storm-clouds descend towards the river and move across the water-meadows. The distance slowly ebbs away to nothing. Tendrils of grey mist come snaking through, seething like smoke above the waving grass. Lariats of rain curl forward from the smoke, hissing and stinging. The whole sky becomes a dome of shining white that crashes open into spray with a crackling roar of thunder. The storm-clouds sweep low and unbroken across the river valley. The rain clings to the horizon like a mist, and the wide swallow-coloured river is a calm waveless hissing. It is a world sunk beneath the surface of the clouds and risen above the surface of the water, an element in which there is no real light or air but only a faint luminosity and a fragmentation of flying water. A kingfisher flashes in front of me and slants away across the meadow. I see the sudden spurt of turquoise flame and hear the high piping call. The blue kingfisher colour seems to diffuse into the wet air. It flows out into the clouded grass, then flares above it, like a fish breaking the surface of a stream. The air throbs with the whirling black shapes of the sharp-pointed swifts. Many swallows and martins are resting along the wires of a fence, their feathers matted and drab with rain. They rise abruptly with a roar of fluttering wings. A hobby flies past, dim in the driving storm, pursuing a swift. Both birds seem to move slowly forward with erratic spurts and jerks, as in a blurred and crackling silent film. They are soon hidden by the lightning and the rain.
 
 
The storm lasts for another hour. Then the clouds rise slowly, and shrink up into a dark coil above the northern skyline. The sun shines again. Birds glow in the wet trees. The air smarts with the smell of rain. The soaked hay lies in long wind-rows of fallen white cloud. The grass steams in the warm evening sun. The scent of honeysuckle moves out from the hedge, sharp and far-reaching. The fanged blossom smells no stronger than the roving fragrance. The air is cool, embalmed with hay and flowers. Blackbirds and thrushes sing. The hobby flies steadily towards the distant wood, carrying a dark and broken swift in its talons. This is now a different place from what it was two hours ago. There is no mysterious essence we can call a ‘place’. Place is change. It is motion killed by the mind, and preserved in the amber of memory.
The poplars are still. The raindrops glitter in the dishevelled flowers of the briar rose. Lapwings call from the subsiding hayfield, a remote and lonely sound. A mallard drake descends from the sky, coming down in a great whistling curve of wings, his outstretched head and neck piercing the air. At first he is a black speck; then a duck-shape; then colour begins, and I can see the primary feathers of the outstretched wings separating and the wings curving forward, cupping the air, while the red legs and feet fall away from the body and reach forward and down. The green of the head shines suddenly from black, and the purple specula bloom. The bird seems to check his swift descent, swaying as he slows into a steeper curve. It looks slow, but he is still falling very fast, still coming forward into more and more dazzling colour, as though ultimately he will crumple down into a spectrum of soft feathers at my feet. Steeper and steeper he falls, and yet more slowly. Till suddenly the river is there beneath him, shining, rising with a flash of silver light. A splash of spray is flung up as the mallard lands. The circling ripples spread endlessly outward from the still centre where the placid duck is now floating, so folded and composed, as though it had never risen into flight, had never been separated from the smooth surface of the water.
 
 
The glow of sunset fades. The shining pike of the green and yellow river-light sinks slowly down into its dusk of reeds. The long shadow of the waiting heron ebbs away. I hear the questioning whistle of an otter, and the distant wing-breath of a drumming snipe. The smell of the wet land is now as pungent and rich as the night-smell of the darkening river. A skylark flutters from the soaking grass of the field. Mist rises in every hollow and hangs in the air like an uplifted dew. It rises in the hillside woods, and flows out of them in glistening streams. The lark sings softly, and then sinks to rest. Dusk breathes from the drowned hair of the severed grass.
Smoke drifts above a line of oaks near the river. It rises from the black trees, and becomes grey against the yellowing sky. When I move nearer, I see that it is not smoke but insects, gnats, the small hand-flourishers, millions of them dancing together in dense, dark ectoplasm. They are wafted higher by the slightest breeze, undulating upwards in long grey drifting plumes. Swallows and swifts are feeding upon the thicker swarms, close to the leaves. The grey clouds of insects thin out to a fine rain. They spiral and twist apart, forming small whirlwinds. Sometimes they sail very high, as though released, loosened completely from the tethering trees. The sky is constellated with them. It is a receding universe of gnats.
The strange dance of the gnats has ended, and the sky darkens to a deep hypnotic blue. A barn owl floats silently from a hollow tree, fanning the air with soft, angelic wings. It beats slowly forward over the shine of the still river, pausing, almost hovering, its whiteness increasing, its reflection gaining depth and darkness in the shine beneath. Suddenly it folds small on to a post of grey stone, where it becomes grey, mottled with golden-brown, with the same gold lichen as the wet stone. The eyes look red-rimmed, the face curiously hard. The owl preens, then gazes around. It moves away, gleaming big and white between the pollarded willows of the field, threading between their slender crowns in the cool, damp, river dusk. There is a sudden swish upward of mallard that have been softly quacking in alarm. They spread out like the fingers of a hand, imprinted on the starred twilight.
The heavy sun pressed down; heat smote upward from the water-shimmering road. The hot sun numbed the mind; cool rushes of green shade revived. A warm breeze stifled in the solid trees. All sound was dry. A fume of summer coiled upon the fields.
Blind cars had made their kill. Many birds lay shattered in the road: blackbirds, thrushes, and starlings, were pulped and flattened in the sanded tar. A rat, a mole, and a rabbit, had been reduced to rusty stain. Traffic made the insects rise. Swifts came down to feed, cutting between cars, bouncing in the hot metallic glare. Low down in front of wheels the thin dark shapes cut through. Fifty miles an hour was simple to them; merely the speed they started from. Like black-ripping many-bladed knives, they flung ahead, crisping across windscreens, blurring into light, unseen, untouched, gathering their prey. The insects that were left were smashed to green haze upon the heated glass.
 
 
The cool, quiet river was relief. The hot snarl of the distant road was soothed away. Slender damsel-flies, dark blue points of light, were hovering in the sharp green reeds. Something like a wisp of smoke – but it was not smoke – five feet high, and twirling, came quickly through the tall grass. It was like a thin mist rising. Grass bent before it. There was a hissing. Trees leaned away, and leaves moved frantically. Then the silvery spiral died into the river. It was a whirlwind, created by the heat, and sent spinning across fields to find its water-quenching.
Under willows, among the close-growing yellow stems of tall, tufted reeds, a reed warbler sang. His small, soft body trembled with the sound. His frail legs were splayed apart, each spidery foot clinging to a separate reed-stem. It was a sweet uncertainty of song, a thin, harpish resonance of repeated notes, reedy, far-carrying, wistful, always about to end yet never ending, as though the reeds themselves were singing. It is a song that will not fade into silence. It has to be listened to. The strange jerky twanging is like a forgotten language. No other bird has this lonely chant lying beneath the surface of his song. Dragonflies hovered, and settled on the green and yellow sifting of the barley. Their wings were invisible. Their narrow bodies, two inches long, were like many-jointed stems of porcelain. They clung to the barley, where they looked like hanging fragments of white twig. Small insects were lured towards this limpid whiteness, and were easily caught.
Over the flat fields of potatoes, ridged with deep green and the sleep white of blossom, the heat-haze was tall and shining. Men moved slowly on the far side of fields that seemed immense. They were bent and distorted by the haze. The weight of a great age seemed to hang upon them, as though they had moved back into the past, as though they had gone out through the shine of the now to bring back the dead to labour in the heat that was once their own. There was a throwing down of hoes, a settling of shapes into the lower haze. Then a man strode away, moving with crinkled knees, wading up towards the light. He dwindled along the dry farm road till his head was deep down and lost in the vapour of the skyline. Then the fields were empty. The haze moved gently from side to side in a slow ritual motion.
There was a faint coolness at the water’s edge, but up in the wood the heat was as solid as the dusty trees. Even where the wood had been cleared, where large bundles of faggots were lying, there was no air, no gap in the pale hot dusk. I foundered into shade, and slept for a time under the huskiness of dry-rattling branches. Beyond the wood, the sunlight stood firm and changeless in the rising wind.
 
 
I woke to the soft calling of a kestrel. It was perched in a solitary oak on the far side of the clearing, out in the shimmering mist of heat. It rose, and the blue sky slid beneath it. More sky poured under, and the sharp hawk glinted small. There was coolness for the eye in that smooth ascension. I walked across the fields between the woods. The zenith of the day was past, and the light was tilting down towards the distant shade of night. The white glare was fading to a yellowness that was like pale shadow. The air was still intensely hot, but it was broken into segments by the wind.
All the heat of the day had gathered in a valley to the north of the wood. The heavy walls of the trees were ivied with dusk; the winding light of paths faded up into the wood, and sombred away to shadow. The steep lane rose and fell beneath the evening sun, smooth and warm and shining like a sleeping snake, gliding under martins and swallows. Honeysuckle twined its cold fragrance from the passing hedge. Bracken and willow-herb shone between trees where lakes of sunlight slowly dried away. The heat floated up into the sky, and the cool evening air poured like water through the parching wood. A barn owl came flying from the east, gathering light from the glow of the fields, bearing away the aching and the glare.
The wood is remote, and secretive, under the flowing down of the day’s great heat, like an animal stretching towards sleep. Later, at the first cool touch of night, it exhales a sweet-smelling cow’s breath of hot bracken, birch leaves, and dusty bark, and that strange scent which is kindled by them and is indefinable. Then the lane is a rising and falling of heat and cold, and the horizontal fragrance of the honeysuckle whips across my face in cold white flashes, like the smell of a storm.
 
 
I went past the farm to the west of the wood, where the high barns glowed with hay, down the dusty path between the dry rustling of the corn, and out into the sand-coloured stubble of the big hayfield. The bales of hay were standing far apart, or leaning together in clusters, scattered irregularly across the field. Some bales were seven feet tall, some only three or four. They were already fading to dull yellow, the compressed grass withered and dry, and sere as reeds. But I could not believe the grass was dead. Hay has no beginning, and no end. It is a suspension between life and death. The bales were damp on the eastern side, where the sun had not yet dried them. I could not smell the hay till I pressed my face against its prickly warmth. The possessive reek of a fox hung in the heavy air. Already the green and white striped stubble was soaking with dew. Many blackbirds, thrushes, and starlings, were feeding in the aftermath. Skylarks sang up into the sky’s vast globe of pearl; swifts and swallows flickered at the rim, like fins. Rabbits leapt at the edges of the fields, in and out of the long shadows.
Close to the wood, a flock of lapwings was calling and running forward. There were thirty of them, moving like a darkness over the pale gleam of stubble and the paler gleam of the ungathered hay. They flew up into the yellow sunlight, changing from black and white to a revolving of green and blue, blue-black and orange. Thrushes and tree pipits sang beside the wood. The mower has left a fringe of buttercups, and some tall grass still stands, looking now a strange, deep, foreign green. The heavy-shaded oaks, whose branches reach out like dark wings above the edges of the field, seem lighter now the grass is down. The flat shine of the stubble is reflected on the undersides of the leaves. The light of the grass has fallen. It lies like a Pharoah in the sweet embalmment of the hay. In a mown field there is always something floating, just above the ground, invisible, impalpable. The air that moved between the grasses seems to be still hovering there. The whole field floats upward. Its weight is in the bales; the rest is buoyant, like a rising sea. Far above the sun, high clouds of cirrus shone like silver wisps of hay.
 
 
Leaving the field, I walked slowly up the path beside the larch wood. It was nine o’clock. A wren sang briefly, and left the silence tingling. Deep down in the oaks to the north, there was the submerged sound of distant woodpigeons singing. The bracken smelt fresh in the open, but under the oaks and larches it was rank and decaying. Suddenly there was a sharp, sweet scent, rather sickly and female. It seemed to come from the grass of the ride, but when I bent down to look closer, it had gone. There was no flower there. Seen from low down, the bracken to the south was high and hemlock-dark; the rosebay willow-herb shone like stands of purple pine. The sun was pencilled with clouds. It sank beneath them, red and gold, and rested on the skyline. The oaks and larches of the wood were crossed with a last touch of fire. Fox-flames burnt briefly upon bark, a splash of liquid colour. Hot golden light burnt deep, branding the trees with a ring of fire. Then it suddenly withdrew, retracted in long flashes across fields, and whipped downward with the sinking sun. What a god-denying betrayal it must have seemed to the first men, to find that the sun would not float upon cloud or water, but would always sink, would always plunge into the skyline, never to be dug up again, burrowing like a golden mole to burst at morning into eastern air.
One by one the thrushes stopped singing. The only bird-sound left was a distant piety of robins. I went back towards the hayfield. Colder air was already piercing the warmth of the ride. Everything was very still, quieter since the setting of the sun. The sun is silent, yet unconsciously we may be aware of its endlessly roaring flames, like the far whisper of an unseen waterfall. Three mallard flew down into the red gulf of the sunset. A late swift chafed the zenith of the cooling sky. Over and through and over the long hedge that slants around the field, a male sparrowhawk came weaving and fanning and gliding. He drifted up into an oak, and was held there by the dark boughs. Nothing came away. Through the moonlight of my binoculars, I saw him standing on a branch, dwarfish and malevolent, his ringed eye dulling to an ashen core. Dusk-coloured, he crouched and waited in the night of the tree. Every twig seemed to vein inwards to the fevered heart of the hawk. Then spasm, contortion; he grazed across the light, swerving like a bat. He was chasing a bat. He could not catch it. He wrenched away, and dropped with choking suddenness on to the song of a robin. Somewhere in the silver water of the birches there was a wild splashing of wings. Then all was quiet. The song came again, but not the hawk.
 
 
The sky was still bright above the hayfield. Near the hedge, up against the western horizon, a fox was sitting on a bale of hay. He peered downwards, walked along a line of bales, then stopped to wash himself. Rabbits fed nearby, but they were not alarmed. Occasionally the fox leapt into the air like a kitten, back legs leaving the ground, front legs waving, jaw snapping shut as he tried to catch moths. He was a thin-looking fox, with big pointed ears, very red and white. Suddenly he jumped away from the bales and trotted quickly down into a gulley. Rabbits scuttled into the hedge. The fox re-appeared, much closer now. He watched the rabbits, but did not follow them. He came towards me, head held low, the fluffy red fur of his chest ruffling as he ran. He was a large cub, still rather woolly, with bandy, wobbly-looking legs. Five yards away he saw my feet, and stopped. He stared at them. Very slowly he raised his head and looked higher, but his eyes did not focus on my face. They seemed not to rise above waist-level. In the half-light they looked dull brown, with dark treacly pupils. I could sense his sudden gasp, his long indrawn breath, his prolonged tremor of wonder, of bewilderment, of fear, of indecision. He bucked, throwing up his hind legs, as a rabbit does. He sank down, and looked up at me from a different angle. Then he turned, and ran away. His white-tipped tail was dark, darker than his body. It filled with air and looked thick and solid as he ran.
 
 
I went down towards the wood. A tawny owl called ‘kee-wick’, the first true sound of night. Slowly I walked down the long slope of the field and up into the hushed unanimity of oaks that rose on the far side. As I came nearer, they seemed to move apart. Their stillness was dark and immense, a weight upon the eyes, a pressing-in of the ear-drums. The afterglow in the west reddened the trees’ rough bark. I touched it to be sure that it was not some strange luminosity that would come off on to my fingers. My hand cast a faint shadow. The sun had set half an hour before. It was the stillness of the trees that made them so vividly alive. They seemed to be holding themselves upright in a tall silence, like hunters that do not wish to be seen. They were drawing together across the last remaining light, closing in, massing. The soft greyness of the wood was hardening to a unity of black; inimical, if you believe the dumb are your enemies.
The scent of the wood was stronger now, a rich warmth flowing outwards like a river of leaves. The field was damp and cold with the dew. The white-starred elders held wisps of heat above the dark skull of the rabbit warren. Delicate, thin-stepping, a fox trotted by, like a wind walking softly through the grass. A heron flew westward, black-winged and ponderous with the night to come. The white flakes of the ghost moths fumbled at the bracken. Stones gleamed white in the dry earth, and dead grass shone. A dozen noctule bats came out of the wood with a rush, like a dry crepitation of fluttering hands. The larched air was foiled and wrinkled with their leathery swarming. They swooped and curved over the whitening sky, capturing insects. A smoke of sounds drifted from the distant village: the fraying bark of a dog, a dusk of voices.
The tawny owl’s dark release of song quavered from the pine wood. The sleek dusk bristled with it, like the fur of a cat. I moved under the gloomy trees. The owl surfed out across the rising night. He could hear the turn of a dry leaf, the relaxing of a twig, the loud scamper of a soft-skinned mouse. To him the silence was a flare of sound, a brilliant day of noises dazzling through the veins of dusk. Lynchets of light were striped over the dark ground, and he could interpret them, like forgotten field-shapes found from high above. The wood rose beneath him, dominioned like a wolf’s mane, black and silver-grey. Then the map of darkness streamed with a flight of glittering eyes; and the thin sound of a mouse-death whined high in the heavy air.
 
 
Under the oppressive warmth of the oaks, I waited for the nightjar to appear, but by ten o’clock it still had not called or sung. Two hawks flitted low above the bracken, like the shadows of small hands clenching and unclenching. They spurted along, dancing on the tips of their wings, like rays finning along the bottom of the sea. One was chasing the other, but could see no more than that. They were sudden leaps of darkness, and then nothing. A badger blundered through the bracken, making more noise than a man. It was going down to drink at the stream. A pipistrelle bat twitched and tugged at the light. The nightjar did not sing till ten minutes past ten, fifty minutes after sunset. He perched on a dead tree, but I could hardly see him. The still air throbbed almost painfully with the dryness of his song. Then came the sudden ending, the whirring bubble-notes, and the weird wing-smacking. Most exciting of all was the silence, when I did not know where he was, when the whole dusk seemed to be leaping and gliding with long, light wings, seemed to be hoarse and gaping with wide, moth-catching, sack-like mouths.
Five minutes later there were two nightjars in the clearing, just visible when they crossed the zenith of the sky. All light came from above. It had withdrawn completely from the ground, even from the whitest of the big flinty stones. The nightjars chased between the trees, looping and turning in narrow circles, slashing the smooth velvet dusk, threading darkness through the light. They flew low above the bracken. I heard a deep purring sound rising from them as they sank down. It was very different from the song. This was a deep-throated, softer sound, a vibrant humming, like the ecstatic purring of a tiger. It seemed to grip and shake the darkness, dizzying low, spreading over the ground like murmuring water. Its warm vibration sucked at my ears. The birds came close to me. I saw the white spots on the wings of the male, and the white tips of his outer tail feathers, like chips of white wood whirring across the bracken. Then they had gone, sinking and slurring down into the dark valley, leaving the air colder, void, and the night suddenly descending.
 
 
I went back to the hayfield. Lapwings scattered, and called loudly. Their calling is always louder at night, a sharp emphatic ‘pee-wit’, with a pause between the syllables. The smell of the hay was stronger, sweeter now; the whole field was adrift with it. It was the smell of raw green death, exuberant, nostalgic, piercing; the sour sweetness of decay, the earth itself in flower. Breathing it, I seemed to become lighter, aerial. I ran through the dark field, ran between the tall trilithons of the hay bales that leant against the sky like the tilted circle of Stonehenge. It seemed that deep in the ground, far below in the past, men were lifting the hay towards me. And I could bend to meet them, passing my arms down through the stiffness of the earth to receive the death of grass, the midsummer changing of the grass into the dry papyrus of the living hay.
The moon rose from the dark rim of the wood, a red arc flaming upward like a fire rising, turning from red to orange, from orange to a circle of deep yellow. The hay bales flung their long shadows from them, like a silent flinging out of wings. The hay was white as frost. The trees were darker now the moon had risen. I walked through the pine wood. The grass in the rides had been cut and left to dry. It swished softly over my feet. The pines and spruces were black beside me, but up in the moonlight, high above, they were blue, deep blue, like the draped wings of the magpie that hung glittering down from the dead gallows-tree. A tawny owl rushed from branch to branch, as fast and light as a hawk. A hawk would have seemed almost cumbersome compared with this cloud-soft throwing forward of the silence.
Over the hayfield, the nightjar leapt and glided, swayed and fluttered, black and silver-white in the phosphorescence that seemed to scatter like spray from his moonlit wings. He perched on the tall bales, breathing out the dark snake of his song to fork and flicker at the moon. He was curious, and quite without fear. He followed me as I walked across the field, circling above my head, beating his wings and leaping upward: a soft, slow beat, a brief pause, then the incredibly light and buoyant lifting, springing up through the damp air like dark flame rising from the mouth of his wings. With wide-open bill he netted the big ghost moths that twisted away like white lips over the bracken feathering my hands.
Clouds hid the moon. The night sank into shadow, and soft owl-voices raised the trees. After eleven o’clock the nightjar did not sing so often. His song was briefer, less loud, less fervent, more even in pitch and tone. Between midnight and two o’clock I heard him twice. He did not come back to the dead tree. He sang occasionally after three o’clock, but he was silent long before sunrise. I did not know where his nest was, and in the complete darkness I was afraid to walk far in case I should tread upon it.
Reed warblers sang at midnight along the moonlit stream, a sound that hovered like a shining mist. But when the moon had gone, I could see nothing. Only my hands could tell the black air from the black bark. The clouds seemed to be very low, hanging like cobwebs between the tops of trees, dragging clammily across my face. The dense midsummer smell of the birch leaves had dispersed in the cold air. A badger screamed, a long, gurgling tusk of sound curving up into the darkness and twisting loose into a gash of foamy white. Bats creaked among the trees. The returning silence, the silence encircling me, moving inwards, inwards, like silent wings, was the sound of night. The mind seemed to open like a flower to let the silence enter, wings folding within, thousands of dark wings folding down into the darkness of the mind. I clung to the bracken, hung helplessly in sleep from the dark mane of the spinning world.
 
 
By two o’clock there was a paler darkness in the eastern sky. It grew and spread till it was brighter than the returning moon, brighter than the afterglow of sunset, a great arch of light burning away the starry edge, curving over the darkness above me, dwindling it down, flaring behind the horizon till all was clear and new again. The earth had risen.
A carrion crow called, defiling the light with the black imprint of his wings. The sky was blue and wet and shivering. The first lark sang. The sun rose, and black shadows fled across the blazing rainbow dew-shine of the starry grass. The hayfield lay prone beneath the sunlight, no longer aerial. Apocalyptic bird-song rang from wood to wood.
I went down to the lane, dazed by the brilliance of the day, my mind still webbed with night’s fading blackness, with the darkness that even in the brightest sunlight never completely dies. We have our darkness within us, our beating hearts are black, our limbs move in black nets of muscle; light enters our bodies only through the sudden wound.
The beech wood towered into the sky above the sunken road. The knuckled roots of the beeches grappled the crumbling earth of the steep bank. They were like exposed muscles, so tense with power that I expected to see them flex and tighten, taking a firmer grip upon the yielding surface. The road was hidden from the wood, and the hollow of air above it was soon overgrown by grey branches and green leaves.
It was a June morning, and the sun was warm. The tall beeches had a watery shine. Three hundred yards away, the boles of the trees – both near and distant – formed an encircling palisade of grey light rising and falling. The rust-coloured floor of the wood was covered with a tessellation of seed-husks and dead leaves. There were a few large oaks among the beeches, and a shining darkness of holly. Where the trees were widely spaced, there was a dense undergrowth of brambles, crossed here and there by the fish-like gleam of a fallen beech.
The stifled, emotional voice of a stock dove throbbed in the beech-dusk. The tall columns of the trees rose into vast cupolas of empty air. A nuthatch sang, loud but secretive, like a child pretending to be lost, scampering carelessly over the smooth pathways of the branches. The high canopy of small lime-green leaves, opaque and dark under cloud, became luminous and almost transparent when the sun shone. This tracery of leaves seemed to exist apart, as though it had sunk down from above to be sustained upon the fountains of grey branches rising from the pillars of the trees.
 
 
There were no paths. I wandered through the wood, going neither forward nor back. The fluctuation of the sunlight seemed to become as regular as the sea-breathing of the leaves. I had no sense of the passing of time. I felt insignificant beneath the heroic gestures of the trees. Chaffinches and mistle thrushes sang, green woodpeckers called, and there was the constant seething sound of young starlings begging for food.
Dark against the bright rust of the dead leaves, an unfledged starling lay flabbily upon its back. It was loose-skinned, helpless, and frog-like. Its eyes were closed, but twitching; its whole body twitched, its legs moved feebly, pathetically, feeling for foothold upon the unresisting air. It had probably been dropped there by the jay I had disturbed a few minutes earlier. It is sad to see life ending before it has really begun. So much apparent cruelty is mercifully concealed from us by the sheltering leaves. We seldom see the bones of pain that hang beyond the green summer day. The woods and fields and gardens are places of endless stabbing, impaling, squashing, and mangling. We see only what floats to the surface: the colour, the song, the nesting, and the feeding. I do not think we could bear a clear vision of the animal world.
 
 
The seamed and hollow cave of an old oak leaned out above me. A pipistrelle bat skittered up into the sunlight. The small twigs that still had leaves seemed to be clinging to the bole like parasites, like new trees growing from the dead and wrinkled hide of the old. The bole was tusked with the stumps of long-dead branches. The sky gleamed down through holes that were like empty eye-sockets. A wren walked over the wooden surface, its song echoing frivolously in the cloistral gloom of the friar-waisted tree. The oak was dying into a different life. Embossed with a gloat of goblin faces, it seemed to have assumed an animal existence, as though it might go crashing through the wood in search of prey.
Suddenly the song of a tawny owl trembled up into the sunlight, like a dark bloom. The monotonous sound of mobbing began; the screeching of jays, the scolding of blackbirds and chaffinches. The owl glided from the leaves of an oak, as though it had been ejected from a tunnel of shrill sound. It beat away between the tree-tops, glowing rufous and brown in the light of the beeches, looking paler and less real as it rose higher. The darkness seemed to dry away from its wings. Then it was gathered into the green lustre of a holly, where it could resume the leaf-starred night of its sleep. The sound of mobbing faded, and dispersed, and the wood was quiet again.
 
 
I walked on, moving slowly between the petrified saurian limbs of the trees. The boles of these beeches varied greatly in contour and texture. Many appeared smooth, like grey satin, but some had a sandpaper roughness and were covered with a shadow of moss. High in the green sunlight of the leaves, the trill of a wood warbler was faintly shimmering. Gradually the sound came lower, and closer, as the small green and yellow bird descended to some low-sweeping branches near the ground. He fluttered out briefly to take insects from the air; he picked food from the surface of the leaves with his bill; he peered under twigs, and tweaked gently at the bark. Occasionally I heard the softer, more reflective, four-note song, very remote and melancholy, the mandibles of the bill hardly separating. The main song came loudly, frequently, and at regular intervals, sometimes ceasing abruptly when the bird found food. It was a stuttering, slightly sibilant sound; a pleasant dry cascade, rather mechanical in timbre, beginning slowly, then descending and hastening into a cadence, a vehement trill. It is a sound one always associates with the shining green sea-light that moves endlessly over the pebbles of the beech leaves, with the mossy grey branches and the smooth boles mapped with shadow. The wood warbler’s singing ended as suddenly as it had begun, and soon the bird was hidden again and forgotten, absorbed by the high leaves.
 
 
Many times during the morning I had heard a dry scuffling sound in the trees, but had seen nothing. Now a grey squirrel suddenly appeared on the lowest branch of an oak, eight yards in front of me. It seemed to condense there out of the yellow woodland light, squatting immobile, rigid. Another squirrel flashed up on the side of the tree, ran downwards, then stopped. Its legs were spread wide apart, looking as though they were webbed, and its long claws gripped the fissures of the bark. Both squirrels kept still for a few minutes. Their large blue-black eyes, bulging from whitish fur, were dark and unreflecting, curiously dull, dimmed by a moleskin haze. They blinked frequently, their eyelids fluttering down like moths. I walked towards the tree. For a few seconds their lean shapes seemed to recede into grey blurs that slowly diminished. Then they were suddenly sucked away, hidden by the oak.
The squirrels leapt across to a beech, and ran up and down the bole, hiding from each other, squeaking and grunting. One ran out on to a branch and hung down by its forelegs; the other sprang from the branch beneath, clutched upward, and swung upon its tail. Then they both swung up on to the higher branch together. The larger one jumped over the smaller, scratching its face lightly with an outstretched paw. They chased again, purring with excitement, their claws scuttling crab-like over the smooth bark.
I was suddenly aware of a coldness in the sunlit glade. There was no movement. The squirrels stopped chasing, became sleek and watchful, looking upwards. Far off, the alarm-note of a chaffinch, the screech of a jay, the clatter of woodpigeons rising: closer, the calling of blackbirds, the inane laugh of a green woodpecker. Then a silence, a stillness like night descending. Under the canopy of the leaves, between the bars of sun and shadow, the wings of a sparrowhawk came gliding and dilating, ferrying a sidereal dusk through the green and tawny sunlight. It was a large bird; the broad wings resting upon the silence, the curved prow of the head riding over the still air. The fiery cornelian eyes were kindled with a glow of orange flame. The white keel of the chest was barred with darkness. The sparrowhawk had heard the squirrels, and had come to search for them. They had gone. The rigid shape tilted over, and circled slowly round the tree. It was a female, looking more like an owl than a hawk. It was brown in the sun, pearl-grey in the shadows. For a minute or more it twisted between the trees, fanning its wings and gliding. Then slowly it sailed out into the distance, dwindling and darkening up through the beeches, like a cloud lifting. The songs of birds shone again in the sunlit glade.
 
 
The afternoon was hot. The sunlight had a hard metallic glitter, the shade sank deep beneath the trees. The cooing of woodpigeons wafted sleepily through the warm air. I came to a clearing, where blackcaps sang among the brambles and a swallow flew above. A tall dead beech had the chimerical gleam of a lost city in the jungle, a city for birds and insects. One branch still had leaves; the others were truncated and decayed, flaking into dust. A treecreeper slanted up the greyish-white cliff of the bole, peering into crevices. It sang; a thin vehement tingling, like the melting of an icicle. It seized a caterpillar with the sharp pincers of its bill, banged it against the tree eight or nine times, presumably to kill it – in the same way that a kingfisher kills a large fish –then swallowed it in one gulp. The treecreeper moved upward again. After much hesitation, it followed one of the tributary branches to its source in the sky. Suddenly finding that its curved bill was tapping only the air, it seemed bewildered. It still searched for a higher way, looking up at the sky. Then it peered over the edge, saw the ground below, and flew down to the foot of another tree.
A green woodpecker appeared on the bole of the dead beech. I did not see it in flight. I saw only its shadow, and then the bird itself superimposed upon the shadow, as though its colours had materialised from a print on the sunlit bark. It moved upward in slow jerks, watched by a starling. Its eye shone dark, a dark stone within the white eye-ring and the surrounding patch of black. The scarlet feathers of its crown gleamed in the sun. The long, heavy-looking bill, greyish-white and tapering to a point, was sheathed into the narrow red and black head that bulged out, bullet-shaped, above the flexible neck. The large feet were laid flat on the side of the tree, with the toes stretching upward. The chest was a pale greenish-grey, brightening at the centre to a smudgy whiteness, a mossy shading that matched the beech-bark. The woodpecker drew its head back slowly, far back, leaning out from the tree; then it bowed slowly forward again. Its bill moved through a long arc, like a gun being slowly raised and lowered. Suddenly it flew off into the wood, dipping and rising silently between the trees. The red-feathered crown of its head seemed to fleck the green beech leaves with splashes of shining blood.
 
 
I sat in the shade of a holly, watching the dead beech. Jackdaws sometimes perched there, a wren sang, blue tits and nuthatches searched the bark for food. The hot sun tinted the tree with pale violet light. A grey squirrel crouched low along a dead branch, looking like a flake of grey bark. I kept still, and the squirrel became less wary, sitting up to wash its fur with its tongue, as a cat does, and to scratch its back. It moved to the bole of the tree and crept slowly downwards, head foremost, body and tail flattened against the bole, till it reached the roots. It lowered itself to the ground, till only its tail was stretched vertically upward. It was completely hidden, perfectly camouflaged. Through the binoculars, I could just see that it was a squirrel; without them it looked like another tendon of the spreading beech roots. Its eyes closed, and it seemed to be sleeping. But soon it crept away under the brambles, and I did not see it again. Like many animals, when they do not know they are being watched, it moved slowly and with apparent difficulty, as though its limbs were stiff or broken.
 
 
A jay screeched wildly in the beech wood, and fled into the open clearing, pursued by a sparrowhawk. The hawk drew in behind the jay. Its foot reached forward like a yellow hand, bony, febrile, clutching air, like an old man feeling in front of him. It clutched again. The talons hooked into the tail of the jay and crawled forward till they reached his back, like a climber hauling himself up a steep rock-face with his fingertips. The jay’s flight was broken. His wings moved feebly, spasmodically, like the oars of a boat whose rower has suddenly collapsed. Then they drooped listlessly in air. The two birds sank together like a crippled biplane, tilted, then dived into the brambles. The jay struggled, heaving up in a delirium of fear, but he was underneath and could not overthrow the hawk. He seemed defenceless. He had begun to die at the first touch of the knifing talons. Soon he was dead, and the hawk stood breathless above him, curved like a claw.
I heard the dry snuffling sound of feathers being plucked. It was like the crackling of a distant fire. A smoke of small feather-fronds drifted away in the breeze. The hawk’s head rose and fell, stabbing and wrenching. There was a sharp snapping of bones. The jay was lifted, and transformed. The feeding hawk seemed to glow with a fierce, infernal heat. The yellow eyes flickered and pierced. Fear could be felt in the quiet air. It bristled in the heat, like a faint cloud of frost-needles. The sun moved slowly through the beech leaves, and shone across the clearing. The hawk rose, and flew silently away into the wood, carrying the remains of its prey.
 
 
At four o’clock the green woodpecker returned to the dead beech. It landed on the bole, and stayed motionless for a long time. This lizard-like immobility is a characteristic of the species. One sees nothing curious in the complete stillness of a resting hawk, yet a woodpecker always seems odd unless it is moving. One forgets that this clinging to the side of a tree is the woodpecker’s natural perching position, in which it is quite relaxed and comfortable.
While the woodpecker remained rigidly still, as though it had been hypnotised, the jackdaws called above the clearing, circling and tumbling in a noisy flock. Bees crept among the faded blue flowers of the ground ivy, and a chiffchaff sang. Gradually the chiffchaff came lower in the trees, carrying food in its bill. It called softly, then dropped lightly down to its nest in the brambles. A jay flew to an oak, and sank silently above the chiffchaff, a bright shadow falling through the sunlight with sinister ease, foxy-red and fawn, staring-faced, flourishing its brilliant blue-eyed wings. I disturbed it before it could find and carry off the young birds.
At last the green woodpecker moved. It climbed slowly upward, and began to dig its bill into a cavity in the bole. It dug with tremendously fast stabbing movements. Its head vibrated violently into a green blur as it swung in and out. It attacked the tree, leaping at it savagely, hitting into it with destructive force. Its feet were glued to the bole, but its legs flexed and extended outwards like springs as it leant far back and then came pickaxing forward. At intervals it would stop abruptly, freezing into a posture of mute aggression. When the starlings came near, the woodpecker fluttered at them, lunging fiercely with its bill and clashing its wings among the leaves. It landed on a swaying twig, and its wings and tail spread out to an astonishing width, making it look large and formidable, a green and yellow brilliance, like a huge tropical butterfly.
Eventually it stayed on the living branch of the dead tree, doing nothing, apparently exhausted. Occasionally it moved a short distance up or down. The big crinkled toes, like grey spiders, reached a long way in front of the resting bird. They rose or sank for several seconds before the bird itself began to move. Its legs were thick and sinewy, bouncing and springing as though the tree was a trampoline. They moved like the hind legs of a hare; sometimes slow and crippled, sometimes boundingly light and supple. When I went closer, the woodpecker sank over the side of the branch till only its steeply-pointing bill, red crown, and bright eye, were showing. When I moved back, it flew away.
 
 
Now that the woodpecker has gone, I am able to relax, to stand freely at the foot of the beech. Two starlings are feeding their young in the hole where the woodpecker was digging. It may have been trying to enlarge the hole, which could have been its nest-site before the starlings dispossessed it; or it may have been trying to kill or eject the young starlings. The violence of its action suggested assault, but woodpeckers are extravagant in all their movements, flinging themselves about with melodramatic zest or remaining motionless with a woodenness that is like a rigor.
Behind me, as I stand concealed by the dead tree, I can hear the hesitant blundering sound of a timid animal moving through the brambles. A roe deer has come out into the cooler air of the clearing. It is a sudden glow of colour, a rich chestnut-red, like a long-legged fox. Its nose twitches, and its big ears move nervously. It is the size of a large dog, very tremulous and slender, with docile, wondering eyes. This is a different place. The deer looks up at the dead beech, listening for familiar sounds. It watches me for half a minute; then it turns, and trots back towards the trees. It stops, and looks round. Then it gallops, leaping like a lamb, bounding away into the beech wood. It has been to the edge of the world.
 
 
I go back into cover, waiting for the woodpecker to return. The boles of the trees are softened by a mellower light. High above, a heron is circling slowly to the south. Its long bill shines like ivory in the evening sun. I look down to see the sparrowhawk gliding to the top of the dead beech. Its brown wings flutter mistily as it perches, facing the sun. It relaxes, shakes out its feathers, and sinks down upon the tree. It now looks smaller, hunched and dumpy, with a narrow head that is flattened slightly across the crown. The large eyes are the centre of the bird. Their dark pupils are encircled by glowing irises of brilliant citron yellow. They are like savage stone-age eyes staring through the mask of the present. The resting hawk is like a wooden idol that has been carved and varnished and set in the sun to dry. It looks primitive, tongueless, huge-eyed, and glaring. Cuckoos call in the distance, thrushes and blackbirds sing. The air is quiet, the breeze a far sighing in the beeches. The life of the wood is unchanged, but it seems to have dwindled, to be strangely remote. The sparrowhawk does nothing, does not move its head, glares as though blind. It is volcanic, smouldering with suppressed violence. The green woodpecker flies back to the beech, dips abruptly as it sees the hawk, and lands near the foot of the bole. The hawk looks down, the woodpecker stares up. The two prehistoric profiles have the profound stillness of weapons in repose. Slowly the sun sinks below the trees and the shadows rise over the dead beech. The woodpecker darkens, but the hawk still shines. Suddenly the woodpecker has gone. The hawk dives down into the submerging shadows. Only the man remains.
The smooth road to the south shone in the sun with a dense violet glow. Suddenly it stopped, turned right, and plunged steeply down. A deep valley was revealed. The heat and glare of the road seemed to float forward, dissolving slowly into cool green air. Beyond the deep hollow of the valley, the long ridge of a distant forest rose across the sky like the bristling, muscular spine of a huge animal, chained by the gleaming highways.
I looked down into a vast listening of pines. They were attentive only to the air above. Towns and villages had sunk deep between the trees, dark with finality. The small copses of Spanish chestnut were creamy with blossom, whirling up from the sombre valley like meadowsweet swaying over dark water. A flowering lime tree drifted the air with a clouded honeycomb of cloying fragrance, nostalgic with the closed cells of hopes forgotten, a mirage of time lost. The brilliant green of the heart-shaped leaves was darkened by the shadows of nectar-seeking bees.
 
 
The morning slept like a snake in the unaccustomed warmth. To the east lay the dreaming heath. There is always a dry, withered smell in the heathland air. The heat above the bushes glitters like frost, a spiny furze of hovering light. The air rises into the shapes of flame. The senses are parched by a bronze glare, an acrid metallic taste.
I followed the path across the heath, passing through heather and bracken, between green birches and thick clumps of blue and yellow gorse. The sounds of the road were soon hidden and lost. Willow warblers sang among the balsam-scented birch leaves, a cool watery sound cascading down. Occasionally I heard the dry declining cadence of a meadow pipit, the remote song of a yellowhammer, or the bright fluttering of nomadic linnets. The air had a peculiar density. It was perfectly clear, and the blue sky shone above, yet there seemed to be a silent downward pressure of invisible branches. The air was inhabited, heavy with an unseen presence.
 
 
At the highest point of the heath, five Scots pines stood alone, looking remote and withdrawn. The sun was behind me, shining upon the trees. Their lower branches had been broken off many years before, leaving short, blunt curves of dead wood, dry and grey, like the petrified horns of bison. For the first twenty feet from the ground, the bole of each tree was scaly and brown; but above – up to the highest branches – it was a smooth and glowing golden-red, both gold and red, so that one could not tell which was the dominant colour. The trees did not reflect the sun so much as glow from within, as though their bark was of parchment, a membrane through which a steady flame was shining. They seemed to have their own light, absorbed from the sun, and retained. When I went past at dusk they were still shining with a strange, almost gaseous, incandescence, a reddening luminosity that only faded, and then quite suddenly, when night came, as though the colder air had frozen it away.
The tall pines rose from the heath in complete stillness, unmoved by the wind. The bark of one tree was peeling, and the eye winced from the flayed look it had. Slowly I saw, really saw and did not simply know, that these pines were living things, standing like emaciated horned animals, maned with their dark green or dull blue clusters of narrow leaves. Their deep piny smell was the smell of living beings, anchored by their roots, able to move only upward or outward as the sun ordained. They were not dead, but merely prisoners, land-captives, with the sound of the sea in their leaves.
I picked up a fallen twig. The tassels of its leaves were very cold to the touch. The trees themselves had a cold glaze, in spite of the heat of the sun, like the cold surface of an earthenware vase. The sun made all things clear, as though it might dry away even the black shadows of its own creation. The highest branches of the pines shone white, like the soft damp flesh of mushrooms. The curving branches crystallised out into the similarly-curving leaves, whirling the pale sky beyond into a deeper blue, making it come nearer.
For an hour I sat and watched the unchanging pines, watched the light ascending their tall boles and leaving their contorted branches. Bees droned in the heather and the gorse, red admiral butterflies rested in the sun. Swallows and martins fed on insects rising high above the heath. Nothing disturbed my vision of these ancient Nordic pines, herded together here like the last buffalo, living their own intense life, the slow fire that can never be seen. Cut where you will, you cannot find that flame. It can never be seen, any more than you can see the spirit, or soul, of a man.
 
 
I heard a faint drumming sound. Glancing over my shoulder I saw the dark shape of a hawk descending, and sharp wings expanding and contracting. A male hobby alighted on a dead pine branch, sinking down and becoming a surprisingly small bird. His breast was leopard-coloured, mottled with dark brown and white. His upper parts were blue-grey, the colour of a lowering thundercloud. The crown of his head, and his moustachial streaks, were black, contrasting with the dazzling whiteness of his cheeks and throat. The yellow orbital rings, and the large brown eyes they surrounded, glinted in the sun as he turned his head to watch me. He looked arid, burning-eyed, a hawk of the heat, an emanation of the hot pine bark. It was as though the dead branch had suddenly opened to show a dark nerve quivering within. He was restless, staring past me, and glancing at the sky. He leapt upward, rising steeply from the tree, his long wings lashing and twitching with fierce spasmodic power. A black flame burnt swiftly across the heath. Then it was suddenly quenched as it dived through a shining fall of martins and swallows.
 
 
Beyond the crown of pines, the path sloped down to a small stream. Woods rose on the far side, and the landscape slowly changed. The air was very still. Thousands of insects rose from the heather that hummed and crackled with life under the hot sun. The path was white and stony; the turf beside it sounded hollow to the tread. A sleeping adder lay coiled among the stones. The black zigzag markings along its back looked like a thin dark snake resting upon a larger, yellowish one. The drowsy scent of the gorse blossom seemed to shine; the burnt gorse smelt black and bitter. The dark shadows of the first small clouds fanned slow-sweeping arcs of rich maroon across the pale rose-coloured dunes of heather. The droning song of greenfinches came dryly, sleepily, from the deep green shade by the stream.
The stream was hidden beneath a dense tangle of hawthorn and briar. A strange ticking sound emerged from this impregnable zariba. It was like the churring of a very distant nightjar, but drier in timbre, and more continuous. It resembled the rapid mechanical communication of an insect. It fluctuated in volume, and seemed to waver in direction like the fluttering of a compass needle to either side of north. For five minutes this thin thread of sound endured, always about to reach the moment of cessation yet never actually ceasing. It was the soft, introspective, reeling song of a grasshopper warbler. When I went nearer, it stopped; when I retreated, it began again. It was unreal, a sound embedded deep in the silence, masked at once by the slightest tremor of a breeze in the branches. It seemed, at times, to come from within my own brain, a faint alarm-note endlessly signalling through the nerves of the ear, very close and intimate, but also infinitely far off, receding, and elusive. It was impossible to be certain when the song really ceased. Suddenly I realised that I could no longer hear it, and soon it was fading, forgotten, hard to recall. The small bird itself, olive-coloured and slender, remained in cover and was never visible. But even if I had seen it, I would still have been unable to associate that faint huskiness of sound, ascending so steadily into the summer air, with the attenuated warbler flitting and feeding in the dry, sunless world of the thorn-stems.
 
 
While I was listening for the song of the grasshopper warbler to begin again, I heard a curious alarm-call that I did not recognise. It was close to me; a harsh and sibilant impact, like a scythe being sharpened on a whetstone; ‘sheerk, sheerk, sheerk’, repeated many times. It came from a male red-backed shrike, perched high in a dead birch beside the stream. He was very alert, glancing rapidly from side to side as he watched for prey. He was like a sudden flow of cold air piercing the warm current of the summer afternoon. A small bird, hardly bigger than a chaffinch, yet predatory, rapacious, like a hawk unfrocked and diminished. Whitethroats and linnets fluttered about his head, calling with anxious fury. The shrike’s throat contracted and distended. He cast up a shining black pellet that swung beneath his bill by a thread and then dropped down into the stream. He flew off, pursued by the mob.
Ten minutes later he returned to the same perch. He scanned the sky, stared all around, watching every movement of bird or insect. He would hop up from twig to twig till he swayed at the top of the bush, spreading out his wings and tail to keep balanced. He spent most of his time in the numerous small dead birches, but occasionally he perched in thorn bushes. Once he perched high in a rustling poplar. The leaves glinted and turned in the rising wind. Among the shining brown-tinted leaves, which his colour matched so well, the shrike was hard to see. Sometimes he would be silhouetted against the brilliant deep blue of the cirrus-flecked sky, where snowy corals of cloud curled high to the north-west. Beyond the watching shrike, very small and distant, two hobbies circled slowly down wind.
Many whitethroats sang, or grated out their hard, stone-gritting alarm notes. The shrike chased a singing bird, driving it higher when it tried to descend to the bushes. But the whitethroat evaded easily, dropping into cover before the shrike could come within a yard of him. A blue tit and a yellowhammer gleamed among the hawthorns, carrying food for their young. Linnets twittered in the gorse. A jay lurked behind the screening leaves, watching me closely, peering down at the bushes, skulking through thorn and briar, searching for nests. A flock of lapwings flew slowly northwards, black against the intense blue of the sky.
The shrike came near again, returning to the birch where I had first seen him. He perched only ten feet away, apparently indifferent to my presence. The pale blue-grey crown of his wind-ruffled head was almost powdery-white in the sun, curiously unreal, as though it were of felt instead of feathers. The predatory head look disproportionately large compared with the slender body and longish tail. The wide black eye-stripes had a silken shine, like a rippling mask. The chest was pink and white. When he turned away from me, I could see the rich, glossy, fox-red of his back, and the black and white tail that was never still. A chiffchaff sang to the south, and the shrike’s head swung round to watch and listen. The high domed, blindfolded head moved constantly from side to side searching for suitable prey. It resembled the hooded turret of a gun, turning and turning, then suddenly revealing the glint of a metallic eye, beetle-like in the dark mask.
The shrike dropped lower in the dead birch. He swept downwards, and hovered above the bracken, two yards in front of me. His wings beat very fast, blurring and gleaming like a dragonfly’s. Then he fell like a kestrel, plunging down as though he were seizing the prey with his feet. He rose at once, and flew up to the poplar. His flight was surprisingly fast, undulating like a finch, but faster, and with a strange rippling effect. When he alighted in the tree, I saw that he had a stag beetle in his bill. He looked around for a long time before he eventually swallowed the beetle, biting it into three pieces and gulping it down. After five minutes, following a slight relaxation of his rigid alertness, the shrike flew from the poplar to a small oak. From a crevice in one of the branches he picked out an insect, whose movement he must have seen from thirty yards away.
 
 
When I had been watching the shrike for half an hour, I heard a sound like the wheezing of a starling in a small blackthorn bush nearby. I went closer, and saw two young shrikes clinging to twigs six inches above the nest they had just left. They called constantly, and the adult male began to bring food to them. The female I saw once only, when she perched on a dead tree. She was a speckled, chestnut-brown bird, looking slightly smaller and less conspicuous than the male. She was not so tame, and I did not see her feed the young.
The young shrikes were reddish-brown, the same colour as the adult female, and they were remarkably well-hidden among the leaves of the bush. They could not fly, and their wings and tails were still very short and stumpy. They clambered higher in the bush, clumsy but persistent, often falling back as far as they had climbed. Sometimes they fluttered from twig to twig, half-flying, half-falling. Their bills opened wide to show a bright orange gape and to emit their hoarse wheezing calls for food. They pecked at the blackthorn leaves while they waited. They were frog-like, with big heads and small bodies. Their huge saurian eyes gazed at me, or at the blue and green world beyond, with a wide, unfocused, uncomprehending stare, like that of a human baby. But when the male shrike was coming back with food, the eyes of the young changed at once, focusing on the returning bird long before I could see him, following every movement of his flight until he arrived in the bush.
When the male was very close, the calling of the young birds became a single prolonged speech. They would scramble as high in the bush as they could. One was slightly smaller than the other, and less active. For over an hour the male brought food to them at least once every five minutes, sometimes more often. Near the nest he became cautious. He would dive into a neighbouring bush, and would fly low to the young, suddenly appearing beside them. He would push an insect violently into an open gape, and would fly off again at once. The larger, noisier bird was fed more often than the smaller one. The screeching of all three birds would rise to a crescendo as the male landed in the bush. He had difficulty in perching on the same twig as the young, and he sometimes hovered as he fed them. There was much confused fluttering and jostling, and occasionally the food was dropped and not recovered.
The male shrike caught many beetles, taking them from the bracken, or from twigs and branches. Many insects were allowed to pass unpursued. Diptera did not interest him at all. He killed crane flies and great green grasshoppers, and – on one occasion – a golden-ringed dragonfly. The food he brought to the young birds was always the largest of his kills, not the smallest as one might expect. He often banged his prey on a branch, presumably to kill it quickly. His black bill shone wet with the juices of insects.
Suddenly he flew steeply, almost vertically, up into the air, rising high and fast. He seemed to ascend in long jerks, undulating upwards as though catapulted. He darted and jinked from side to side, beating his wings in rapid, irregular flurries. His pale head, bisected by the black eye-bars, shone conspicuously in the sun as he rose. There seemed to be no purpose in this violent upward dash. But high above the shrike a bumble bee slanted quickly away to the north. It had obviously seen its pursuer, and was trying to escape, but it was overtaken in ten seconds. The bee swerved and dodged from side to side, erratic as a bat. The shrike rose steeply above, and poised there for a moment with his black and white tail outspread. Then he swooped down in a flashing crescent, like a stooping hawk. His tail rippled up and fanned out above him as he dived, his head shone black and white. He snatched the bee from the sky, seized it with its bill as though it were motionless. It was a graceful and sudden end, a flourish of brilliant feathers in the sun and then the released pollen drifting up into the blue air. The shrike parachuted down to the poplar, falling in long slants and sudden vertical plunges. He killed his prey on a branch, and took it to the young birds, who had watched his upward flight from their eyrie in the blackthorn bush.
 
 
A sudden small shadow swung across the sunlit bracken. The shrike looked up, then dropped down into a hawthorn. A male hobby flew above, dashing forward and rolling from side to side, cutting into the wind like a swift. His wings were bright with speed, shearing the air, shedding light from their dark blades. His downbent head looked powerful and menacing, like a clenched fist. His tail pointed backwards, very still and rigid, sharpening away from the tall flicker of his wings. He was a lean, narrow, and high-shouldered hawk, shaped like a swift, bow-shaped; but the bow had bulges in it, the protrusive head, the elbow-like carpal joints. He glided smoothly, evenly forward, flowing over the air, skidding over its smoothness like a stone skimming across ice. His hard anchor-shape floated away, dark and sharp-edged. He seemed to be flattened against the sky, without depth. The tips of his narrow wings hung loosely down, like fingers trailed in water. Occasionally the long, curved primaries flexed with a quick swimming movement, like a fish waving itself forward with its fins. He began to catch insects, seizing them with his thin flexible toes and eating them as he glided, bending his head down to meet his upraised foot with no change or check of motion. Sheathed in his swept-back wings, he dived at a dragonfly that shone above the stream. His extended talons seemed to tear the sky down with him. Speed shattered his shape. I saw only fragments of grey and white and orange. The he swept upward, shaking the sky from his wings. The broken colours closed to black, and shrank small, as the long wings scythed and scythed him away towards the distant eastern pine wood.
The hobby is always the perfect epitome of the places it frequents. On the downs it is a hawk of the open land, of the grassy air and the singing light, a hunter of pipits and larks. By the river it is a water falcon, shining and rippling through the reflections of its prey, capturing dragonflies, spearing swallows and martins. Here on the heath it is like an intense flame that has cooled and condensed to the hard form of a falcon. Its wings are like the dark chitin of a beetle’s shard. It is a bird of the dry gorse, the pines, and the heather, feeding mainly upon moths, beetles, linnets, and warblers. The hobby has a liking for the astringent juices of insects, and for the bitter flesh of the birds and bats that prey upon them: though whether a hawk can actually taste its food can only be conjectured. It lives in those places where the late summer is richest, where birds and insects abound. It is a hawk of the south, startling and beautiful as it suddenly hurtles above in the violent flamenco of its flight.
 
 
By four o’clock the wind that had risen at midday had declined to a faint warm breeze from the south. The heat-haze hovered and glittered over the white path across the heather, like the gleaming wings of innumerable dragonflies. Many grasshoppers sang in the gorse, but most of the birds were silent. Occasionally I heard the muffled cooing of a turtle dove, or the dry-throated, difficult song of a reed bunting. The air smelt and tasted of the heat, arid and dusty as dead bracken. Far to the west, beyond the clump of pines, red and yellow spires of flame bled slowly up into black smoke. Trees flared like torches of pitch, and were left autumnal, their leaves fading from brilliant orange to dull brown or black. Rainbow streams of water curved up from hidden hoses. Soon there were no flames, but only the black smoke rolling upward with vicious speed, the heath slowly dying into the devouring air.
 
 
I followed the stream to the north till I came to a pond. It was roughly circular in shape, not more than fifty yards across, dark and still, with a fringe of green marsh. It was surrounded by small birches, gorse, and a few dwarf oaks and hawthorns. There was a smell of fox in the brackish air. The vanishing white scuts of rabbits flashed and bobbed in the sun. Willow warblers sang, and a solitary bullfinch called.
On a post beside the pond, sprung upward like a brown fungus in a green lawn, a sparrowhawk was perching. The black pupils of his eyes were small in the sun, deep sunk in the yellow smoulder of the raging irises. His thin toes clutched the post, like skinny yellow hands. Swallows and sand martins swooped and chattered about his narrow head. He crouched low, and squinted up at them. He watched the dark green of the gorse, waiting for a wing to flame. At the same moment I saw the white speck of a stonechat’s rump and the hawk’s reflection cleaving through the water. The stonechat tumbled into cover. The hawks’ foot trailed over him, swinging emptily, scrabbling loose air. The hawk flew on across the heath, without looking back. The stonechat flitted up on to the gorse again, the swallows and martins descended to the pond. I remembered the sulphurous glare of the hawk, and I touched the post where he had perched. There was of course no mark, no imprint on the wood. So intense a bird, breathing out such a heat of hunger, yet he left no mark. It was as though fire could be as cold and printless to the hand as water.
 
 
I stayed by the pond, while the sun sank below the heat of the day receded into the cool blue evening haze. More birds sang: willow warblers, whitethroats, a hedge sparrow, and a wren. The heather darkened, becoming greenish black, as it is in winter. I could smell the birch leaves. The dry earth was still quite warm to the touch. The call of a curlew rose from the sombre heath, like the sad voice of a shadow, proclaiming solitude, the passing of day, night’s wilderness returning. A small breeze ravelled at the water’s edge, and the calm reflections began to tremble like dark sails.
Swallows and swifts were still hawking for insects when the first nightjar sang. Daubenton’s bats flickered low above the water, their wings creaking like harness. A white migraine of ghost moths fluttered in the black gorse. With a hollow whistle of air, the sharp wing of a hobby skated over the shining skin of the pond. Then there were three hobbies, curving, darting, snatching at the dusk. The swallows disappeared, but the swifts remained. The hobbies fed upon insects, chased the swifts, pursued one another. They flew through an endless labyrinth, a maze of shuddering wings. They rose higher as the insects rose. They circled among swifts. The fretted surface of the pond seemed to float up into the sky. The sharp outline of the swooping wings contracted. They blurred, became small and misty, hawks of dark air. Then they vanished. The wild screaming of the swifts faded quite suddenly. Up there it was still day. I was in darkness, but they had found the light.
There is a smell of change in the still air. The dense summer darkness is fading from the sky. The white glint of water spreads out like a slow wave. It reaches the far bank. The grey river mist rises from the hidden grass, haunts up into the shapes of trees. A moorhen calls. I hear the splash of a water vole, the muffled voice of a late owl, the distant song of a blackbird. The horns of cattle emerge from the mist. The boat moves forward into the cold and shrivelled scent of the wet hay. The smell of the morning river glides slowly back from the blades of the damp oars.
The mist shines with the silver light of the sharp-leaved willows. Between the trees there are sudden distances, spaces of air and mist, where poplars and hawthorns hover and sink down. A net of branches seems to impede the ascension of the sun’s pale circle. Sedge warblers and whitethroats sing in the riverside bushes. Reeds move harshly in the rising breeze. The sun glows, and the first faint shadows darken the glistening fields with the fallen shapes of night.
 
 
The boat ripples through the unfamiliar light of the water. Nettles and willow-herb slide past on either side. The sun has kindled the smell of meadowsweet. There is a slow growth of sound: bird-song, the splashing of fish, the rustling of poplar leaves. A yellow wagtail runs through the grass at the top of the bank. Its dazzling daffodil colour is reflected in the wet grass, and in the river beneath, as it peers over the edge.
The prismatic gleam of a kingfisher rises from the surface of the water to perch on an overhanging willow branch. The cobalt and emerald sheen of its plumage seems to fade when it withdraws from the brilliant river light. Slowly it becomes more difficult to see, merging with the green of the leaves and the mossy bark. The blades of its bill rest harmlessly in the dull orange feathers of its chest. Its closed wings reach almost to the tip of its stumpy tail, giving it a neat, compact shape, ornamental and disarming. But the restless eyes watch the dark olive river. The kingfisher is always ready to fall, to seize a fish from the sudden blue cloud of the broken water. It flies as the boat approaches, flashing silver-blue and green and red through the stripes of dusk and sunlight, glittering like the auroral dew. It hovers momentarily above the shallows, but it does not strike.
Where the kingfisher hovered, five roach are swimming very slowly against the current so that they remain stationary. They are two feet down, watching the sunlit surface. Occasionally a fish rises without haste, opening its mouth slowly and closing it quickly upon the air at the surface with a just audible smacking sound. They are catching insects. They look very long and thin, pink-lipped, with silver scales and orange fins. Their tails wave constantly from side to side as they keep their positions in the current. Suddenly they dive vertically downwards with the flurry of fins. A water vole is swimming across the river, holding a dock leaf between its teeth. Its head is held well up, so that the leaf stays dry. It lands upon mud, and runs into the rushes.
A minute later the vole reappears, and swims back to the other bank. It is a sleek brown shape, misty and long in the water. Its small eyes, close together near the top of its head, shine with reflected sunlight as they watch the boat. Its tail is a straight pale line. It moves quickly, easily, furrowing the surface. It runs into a tunnel in the overhanging bank, but emerges at once and begins to eat grass. The lower half of its body is immersed in the river. Gradually it climbs the steep slope of grass, standing up on its back legs till it is almost vertical. Its small white fore-feet pull the blades of grass towards its teeth. It nibbles and chews rapidly, nose twitching, thick white tail hanging limply down. Its long fur gleams with a soft grey bloom of moisture, a delicate light that is watery blue in the sun, as though its bulky body were enclosed in a bubble of mist. The wind-ruffled fur is dun-coloured, neutral in tone. It could be green or grey or brown, elusive as muddy water. On either side of the nose there are tawny markings, like rust. The eyes are blue-grey, filmy and bright, but feeble, like the eyes of an elderly man. When the boat goes by, the vole drops into the river and swims towards its tunnel. The sun and the air are dangerous, only water and darkness are safe.
Sand martins rise endlessly over the drying hayfields, descending occasionally to make low, brief swoops at the surface of the river. They are small, pale brown birds, curiously fish-like. Their brown colouring has a tint of sepia. The primary feathers of their wings are a darker brown, long and flexible. They fly above the fields, rising gradually to two hundred feet; then they rush wildly down to skim the rippling water. Swallows also fly low to the river. They are slower than the sand martins, but more graceful. Their dark gliding streams the green light with fading lines of purple.
 
 
The morning passes imperceptibly. The monotony of land-time is lost in the boat’s slow forward movement, in the steady rhythm of the oars, in the flowing back of the banks on either side, in the rise and fall of the fields. The time of the river has no measurable progression. It surges and slackens and sinks down with the songs of the birds and the sounds of the trees. Intention wavers, and purposes cloud. Time is the wings of the heron, the call of the unseen plover, the wind in the harp of the reeds.
 
 
Slowly the river widens, the banks recede and dip down. There is more land, more water. A lake appears in the distance ahead, glowing with fiery light. But soon I can see that it is not a lake. It is a larger river, alarming in its huge, disdainful breadth, its cold depth and expansiveness of air. I turn the boat into this new, indifferent world, and row upstream, keeping close to the southern bank. Large white clouds shine upon the water. They seem to sink, and change their shape completely, before they drift beneath the fields. Looking up, I am almost surprised to see them still moving northward through the burning heat of the sky.
The musical trill of a little grebe ascends from the sheltering reeds. There is a yellow gleam of irises among the pink blossoms of the flowering rush. The south wind is languished by the warm smell of the white clover, stronger now than the fume of the hay. The black crest of a heron rises from the tall grass of the towpath. The kinked white neck appears. The heron stalks stiffly to the water’s edge, settles the dark spiders of its feet into the mud, stands with negligent bill and gold-ringed eye intent. I pass other herons, spaced out in gaps of reed, like human fishermen. The rusting spears of their reflections lie deep in the shining water.
Where the current is slow, behind a fallen tree, a green and amber pike is lurking. His mottled skin seems to ripple with the striped yellow sunlight of the water. Above him, near the surface, bleak scurry and flash like submerged silver swallows. The beaked pike is a Silurian god, down there in the lowest stratum of the river. When he rises to attack, he dredges darkness up into the light. Within a daggered black sun of pain a bleak is seized. Fish scatter outwards like a corona of bright rays.
 
 
The water is warm now; the midday heat is like a mist upon the land. Emperor dragonflies twitch and turn above the reeds, darting in pursuit of their prey. The hawthorns that grow along the bank are shadowed by swarms of insects. From the slope of the distant wood, a hobby rises slowly and circles down wind. It swoops to the river, and dashes low across the surface. The tips of its sharp wings raise a brief flicker of shining spray. It jerks wildly from side to side, swerving, leaping, rebounding. It is trying to catch dragonflies, but I cannot see if it succeeds. The hobby wheels, and slashes the air with an outstretched leg and clutching foot; the dragonflies shine and flash in the sun. Presumably they are trying to escape, watching for the plunge of the falcon, their turreted heads swivelling and gleaming. The hobby is incredibly agile, but it cannot turn quickly enough. It relies on the fast direct rush and slash, wings vibrating in a seizure of speed. Suddenly it rises, and flies back to the wood, moving with leisured wing-beats and long glides. The dragonflies resume their hunting.
The boat moves slowly through the clouded summer heat. The river bends to the south, and the hillside wood is closer. It rises to a dark, serrated crest of pines. The oaks and chestnuts of the lower slopes are now recognisable as individual trees, but the pines do not come any nearer. They keep their sombre remoteness, their suggestion of a different country, of secrets, of some hidden death that will not be revealed. I tether the boat to an overhanging hawthorn, and clamber up on to the bank. The land seems to be tilted and infirm after the buoyant solidity of the water life.
 
 
The path to the wood is circuitous, skirting large fields of wheat and barley. The wheat is brownish-yellow, glowing with a rich russet light. The barley is whiter, blonde, with strands of green at the base of the stalks. Each stalk sways over at a different angle as the breeze moves them apart, so that the whole field breathes open and seals again with an endless ocean swell. A goldfinch flies above the fields, and the yellow colour of its wingbars seems to change suddenly to match the varying colours of the corn.
The path is covered with the white floss of the seeding willows and the fallen blossom of the elder. The leaves of the hawthorn hedge look arid and autumnal. A corn bunting sings from a dead oak. I stop beneath, but he does not fly. His tail is bent under and forward into a grotesque shape as he balances in the breeze. His bill opens very wide, but closes abruptly as the first brief stutter of the song comes out. Then it opens wider still, and stays open, with the red gape shining in the sun, while the final emphatic jingle of notes dries away into the heavy air. His wings droop and quiver as he sings. He has an intense, dedicated look as he repeats his song at frequent and regular intervals, turning his head constantly from side to side. It is a demanding ritual, to which he gives all his strength and power of concentration. A singing bird seems to be possessed by an irresistible force. The sound emitted can – to our ears – be joyful, sad, or merely dull and irritating. But to the bird the sound may be of little importance. It may be the place of utterance, and the power and frequency of the song, which matter more to him.
A yellowhammer sings from an oak a hundred yards away. The two bunting songs, so parched and dry, seem to be perfectly expressive of the heat, the glare, the dusty sunlight. Here, it is July; in the middle distance there is a September haze; at the horizon a dim November mist.
 
 
The wood trembles in the heat. All is ripe and silent. A skylark sings above, but it seems to be on the far side of a silence that is clear and solid in the heat of the sun. A cool breath comes from the trees. Lakes of rosebay willow-herb float on green light. The creamy meadowsweet smells thick and stifling. Swallows swoop down to sip from the still water of a pond. Linnets and goldfinches drink at the water’s edge.
Inside the wood, the heat is muted and withdrawn. The shade of the trees is like dark, airless sunlight. I go uphill, forcing a pathway through bracken and willow-herb. Calm foxgloves rise in serenity above the dusty nettles. The spired blossom of the Spanish chestnuts smells like meadowsweet, like the sour sweetness of new bread. To describe a wood in detail is to obscure its identity. It is essentially a field of light overgrown by trees. It is not the trees themselves that make a wood, but the shape and disposition of the remaining light, of the sky that descends between the trees. This wood seems to have no dimension. Its boundaries recede to an infinite distance, moving out into the heat of the sun, drifting away with the drowsy cooing of woodpigeons and the clouded voices of turtle doves. A chiffchaff sings, high and remote in the pines. Nothing is close, or clear. At the foot of a pine I see the wings of a swift and a swallow, the kills of a hobby. But of the hawks themselves there is no sign. I cannot find their nest. I go down through the wood, out into the heat again, and back to the river.
 
 
The jarring hardness of the land is left behind. The boat moves smoothly over the water’s cooling sky. The oars splash, and the spray glitters. The shining dace melt down into darkness. Between the tall rain of the leaf-shimmering Lombardy poplars I can smell the warm hay. It is the smell of summer, a harvest of fallen sunlight. The morning clouds have passed to the north, and the afternoon is a silent haze of heat.
Suddenly I hear the harsh grating call of a common tern. A deep and graceful white waving of wings is following the course of the river. The tern flies closer, becomes a warmth of shining white. Black head, red bill, point downwards, looking alert and menacing. Dark eyes watch the water moving back beneath them. The gentle wing-beat hastens, and becomes a hover, a quicker, more incisive fanning. The forked tail spreads out into a thin white membrane. Against the sun, the wings look almost transparent, like shapes of canvas made taut and expressive by the wind. The wings beat faster, blurring to grey. Then they close abruptly, and slide down towards the water. I see a sharp sliver of red pointing below white. The tern plunges, slicing the water with a great gulping splash. I half-expect to see a cloud of steam hiss upward from the white-hot blade. A spun-glass web of foam shatters into spray and spatters down upon the surface that has already healed beneath it. The tern flies high, swallowing his fish.
The boat passes under a dark red bridge where many house martins are flying to and from their hanging nests. Their blue backs are invisible in the gloom; their white rumps rise and fall upon the flowing air like tiny flecks of foam. The arch of the bridge is a cave of hollow sound, a twittering coldness carved from the heat of the day. The sun strikes down with renewed strength as the boat emerges.
The air is very still now, but the sailing swans give the impression of a breeze. A sedge warbler sings in a motionless aspen. It is the only sound. The purple loosestrife smoulders in the heat. High above, where immense white clouds are forming, the dark fang of a hobby falls and rises in pursuit of a house martin. It is all so far off, so remote in the glare of the sky, that I have no feeling of excitement, no sense of wonder at the power and speed of the hawk’s flight as it disappears into the haze.
 
 
I turn the boat into a narrow backwater that leads to a weir. Four swifts fly low overhead, one behind the other, screaming as they whip past, their curved wings lashing and jerking. Their shrill calls tingle through the nerves. The sun makes them look brown, shows up their white throats. Their bent shapes seem to whang away from the resistance of the air, as though they were tensile and springy, like crescents of thin black metal.
The quiet stream is heavy with sleeping grebes, moorhens, and duck. It is as though the stillness of night had been suddenly lifted into the hot pallor of the day. A grass snake parts the water into a long ripple as it swims across from the other bank. Its head is held rigidly up above the surface, but the whole length of its body is submerged, waving from side to side with a sinuous, horizontal undulation. It seems always to be sinking but it does not sink. It comes quickly towards the boat, breathing at regular intervals, with its forked tongue flicking in and out for several seconds at a time, like barbs of small dull flame. I move the oars, and it stops at once, hanging motionless in the water, trailing down into the deep green and yellow light. It stays like that for at least a minute, with its head protruding and its eyes watching me, while its body floats down below the surface as though it were already dead. Then it turns, and swims back to the bank, waving easily away into the shadows. Watching the grass snake moving so smoothly through the water, I had felt cooler, I had sloughed off the hot skin of the mottled sunlight. Now the sun resumes its power.
I moor the boat, and walk along the bank till I come to the white roar of the weir. The stream is smooth and still above the fall. The green banks, overhung with grass, darken the water with a brown reflection. Bands of light are crossed by the reflected boles of the cricket-bat willows. There is no premonition of change in this serene and glossy surface. The still reflections break suddenly where the fall begins. It is a transformation; another element supervenes, contiguous but unrelated. The dark water plunges twenty feet to become the white foam beneath. It has the sculptured solidity of endless movement. The weir rages with the translated rain of spring. There is a cold, iron smell, sinister and thrilling, of water exultant. The fall glares whiter when the sun sinks beneath the pensive water-lily clouds. The crystalline ropes of foam pour down over dim green stone into a white darkness that rushes away to the east to gradually become slow and sunlit again before it rejoins the river. The curved hieroglyphs of the thrown foam clash and curl away, luminous and evanescent, like paintings seen by fading light on the wall of a cave.
 
 
The river is deep with cumulus as I row slowly east again. Cattle are sleeping in water meadows where redshanks call. A turtle dove drinks from a cattle-trough. Nothing shines here, but the trees to the south are sharp against white thunder-heads of cloud. A dark bird swoops low over dark-shaded water. It is a black tern in summer plumage. It comes closer, and I can see the deep narcotic black of its head and breast and the heavy grey of its back. Flying fast, undulating over the shadowed water, swinging its wings with a relaxed and even rhythm, it sweeps down to meet its dark reflection rising and gathers insects from the unbroken smoothness of the surface. Poising, idling upon air, then darting down, it curves away from me and goes steadily upstream. Dark head, dark bill, dark eye; the eye alone is bright, glittering like a gem of coal. The black tern draws a cooling line through the dry metallic heat. It passes like the first cool flake of a breeze, and the heat can no longer be the same.
 
 
The birds are silent. There is no movement in the trees. The oars dip noisily into the still water. The seeds of distant rain spill down from dissolving blooms of cloud, and the sky to the south is grey and withered. The castellated brilliance, which had seemed perpetual, has suddenly gone. A little owl flies from a riverside willow to perch on a post in the field. Swallows swoop at it immediately, diving straight down at its head and forcing it to duck. They slash down with amazing hawk-like venom and persistence. Blackbirds and thrushes fly out from the trees to join in the mobbing. They beat their wings wildly about that squat and hated head, hovering and fluttering as though they intend to alight upon it. The owl ducks repeatedly to avoid these spiteful rushes, sinking and rising, bending at the knees with comical suddenness. At last it flies down into the grass, where it is harder to see. One blackbird goes down with it; the other birds disperse. The blackbird utters its monotonous scolding note unceasingly, but soon it begins to feed. Gradually its scolding falters and fades. It has apparently forgotten the little owl, which is only a yard away. The owl sleeps. When the sky darkens with storm-clouds, the owl wakes, and flies back to the willow. Blackbirds and thrushes fly into the hawthorns to roost, behaving as though it were dusk.
Dazzling white thunderheads are growing rapidly from the grey ridges of cloud to the south. They swirl up into huge mountains of intense marble whiteness, like frozen white foam. These clouds are so bright, and the rest of the sky so darkened over, that their vivid glare seems to pluck at my eyes. The thunder is closer now, echoing and profound, suggesting vast depths. Swifts circle high beneath the great cloud-boulders. They fall dizzily, with wings vibrating, the sky lifting beyond them like white fountains. A hobby falls with the swifts, but is suddenly hidden as the storm-clouds descend towards the river and move across the water-meadows. The distance slowly ebbs away to nothing. Tendrils of grey mist come snaking through, seething like smoke above the waving grass. Lariats of rain curl forward from the smoke, hissing and stinging. The whole sky becomes a dome of shining white that crashes open into spray with a crackling roar of thunder. The storm-clouds sweep low and unbroken across the river valley. The rain clings to the horizon like a mist, and the wide swallow-coloured river is a calm waveless hissing. It is a world sunk beneath the surface of the clouds and risen above the surface of the water, an element in which there is no real light or air but only a faint luminosity and a fragmentation of flying water. A kingfisher flashes in front of me and slants away across the meadow. I see the sudden spurt of turquoise flame and hear the high piping call. The blue kingfisher colour seems to diffuse into the wet air. It flows out into the clouded grass, then flares above it, like a fish breaking the surface of a stream. The air throbs with the whirling black shapes of the sharp-pointed swifts. Many swallows and martins are resting along the wires of a fence, their feathers matted and drab with rain. They rise abruptly with a roar of fluttering wings. A hobby flies past, dim in the driving storm, pursuing a swift. Both birds seem to move slowly forward with erratic spurts and jerks, as in a blurred and crackling silent film. They are soon hidden by the lightning and the rain.
 
 
The storm lasts for another hour. Then the clouds rise slowly, and shrink up into a dark coil above the northern skyline. The sun shines again. Birds glow in the wet trees. The air smarts with the smell of rain. The soaked hay lies in long wind-rows of fallen white cloud. The grass steams in the warm evening sun. The scent of honeysuckle moves out from the hedge, sharp and far-reaching. The fanged blossom smells no stronger than the roving fragrance. The air is cool, embalmed with hay and flowers. Blackbirds and thrushes sing. The hobby flies steadily towards the distant wood, carrying a dark and broken swift in its talons. This is now a different place from what it was two hours ago. There is no mysterious essence we can call a ‘place’. Place is change. It is motion killed by the mind, and preserved in the amber of memory.
The poplars are still. The raindrops glitter in the dishevelled flowers of the briar rose. Lapwings call from the subsiding hayfield, a remote and lonely sound. A mallard drake descends from the sky, coming down in a great whistling curve of wings, his outstretched head and neck piercing the air. At first he is a black speck; then a duck-shape; then colour begins, and I can see the primary feathers of the outstretched wings separating and the wings curving forward, cupping the air, while the red legs and feet fall away from the body and reach forward and down. The green of the head shines suddenly from black, and the purple specula bloom. The bird seems to check his swift descent, swaying as he slows into a steeper curve. It looks slow, but he is still falling very fast, still coming forward into more and more dazzling colour, as though ultimately he will crumple down into a spectrum of soft feathers at my feet. Steeper and steeper he falls, and yet more slowly. Till suddenly the river is there beneath him, shining, rising with a flash of silver light. A splash of spray is flung up as the mallard lands. The circling ripples spread endlessly outward from the still centre where the placid duck is now floating, so folded and composed, as though it had never risen into flight, had never been separated from the smooth surface of the water.
 
 
The glow of sunset fades. The shining pike of the green and yellow river-light sinks slowly down into its dusk of reeds. The long shadow of the waiting heron ebbs away. I hear the questioning whistle of an otter, and the distant wing-breath of a drumming snipe. The smell of the wet land is now as pungent and rich as the night-smell of the darkening river. A skylark flutters from the soaking grass of the field. Mist rises in every hollow and hangs in the air like an uplifted dew. It rises in the hillside woods, and flows out of them in glistening streams. The lark sings softly, and then sinks to rest. Dusk breathes from the drowned hair of the severed grass.
Smoke drifts above a line of oaks near the river. It rises from the black trees, and becomes grey against the yellowing sky. When I move nearer, I see that it is not smoke but insects, gnats, the small hand-flourishers, millions of them dancing together in dense, dark ectoplasm. They are wafted higher by the slightest breeze, undulating upwards in long grey drifting plumes. Swallows and swifts are feeding upon the thicker swarms, close to the leaves. The grey clouds of insects thin out to a fine rain. They spiral and twist apart, forming small whirlwinds. Sometimes they sail very high, as though released, loosened completely from the tethering trees. The sky is constellated with them. It is a receding universe of gnats.
The strange dance of the gnats has ended, and the sky darkens to a deep hypnotic blue. A barn owl floats silently from a hollow tree, fanning the air with soft, angelic wings. It beats slowly forward over the shine of the still river, pausing, almost hovering, its whiteness increasing, its reflection gaining depth and darkness in the shine beneath. Suddenly it folds small on to a post of grey stone, where it becomes grey, mottled with golden-brown, with the same gold lichen as the wet stone. The eyes look red-rimmed, the face curiously hard. The owl preens, then gazes around. It moves away, gleaming big and white between the pollarded willows of the field, threading between their slender crowns in the cool, damp, river dusk. There is a sudden swish upward of mallard that have been softly quacking in alarm. They spread out like the fingers of a hand, imprinted on the starred twilight.

The smooth road to the south shone in the sun with a dense violet glow. Suddenly it stopped, turned right, and plunged steeply down. A deep valley was revealed. The heat and glare of the road seemed to float forward, dissolving slowly into cool green air. Beyond the deep hollow of the valley, the long ridge of a distant forest rose across the sky like the bristling, muscular spine of a huge animal, chained by the gleaming highways.
I looked down into a vast listening of pines. They were attentive only to the air above. Towns and villages had sunk deep between the trees, dark with finality. The small copses of Spanish chestnut were creamy with blossom, whirling up from the sombre valley like meadowsweet swaying over dark water. A flowering lime tree drifted the air with a clouded honeycomb of cloying fragrance, nostalgic with the closed cells of hopes forgotten, a mirage of time lost. The brilliant green of the heart-shaped leaves was darkened by the shadows of nectar-seeking bees.
 
 
The morning slept like a snake in the unaccustomed warmth. To the east lay the dreaming heath. There is always a dry, withered smell in the heathland air. The heat above the bushes glitters like frost, a spiny furze of hovering light. The air rises into the shapes of flame. The senses are parched by a bronze glare, an acrid metallic taste.
I followed the path across the heath, passing through heather and bracken, between green birches and thick clumps of blue and yellow gorse. The sounds of the road were soon hidden and lost. Willow warblers sang among the balsam-scented birch leaves, a cool watery sound cascading down. Occasionally I heard the dry declining cadence of a meadow pipit, the remote song of a yellowhammer, or the bright fluttering of nomadic linnets. The air had a peculiar density. It was perfectly clear, and the blue sky shone above, yet there seemed to be a silent downward pressure of invisible branches. The air was inhabited, heavy with an unseen presence.
 
 
At the highest point of the heath, five Scots pines stood alone, looking remote and withdrawn. The sun was behind me, shining upon the trees. Their lower branches had been broken off many years before, leaving short, blunt curves of dead wood, dry and grey, like the petrified horns of bison. For the first twenty feet from the ground, the bole of each tree was scaly and brown; but above – up to the highest branches – it was a smooth and glowing golden-red, both gold and red, so that one could not tell which was the dominant colour. The trees did not reflect the sun so much as glow from within, as though their bark was of parchment, a membrane through which a steady flame was shining. They seemed to have their own light, absorbed from the sun, and retained. When I went past at dusk they were still shining with a strange, almost gaseous, incandescence, a reddening luminosity that only faded, and then quite suddenly, when night came, as though the colder air had frozen it away.
The tall pines rose from the heath in complete stillness, unmoved by the wind. The bark of one tree was peeling, and the eye winced from the flayed look it had. Slowly I saw, really saw and did not simply know, that these pines were living things, standing like emaciated horned animals, maned with their dark green or dull blue clusters of narrow leaves. Their deep piny smell was the smell of living beings, anchored by their roots, able to move only upward or outward as the sun ordained. They were not dead, but merely prisoners, land-captives, with the sound of the sea in their leaves.
I picked up a fallen twig. The tassels of its leaves were very cold to the touch. The trees themselves had a cold glaze, in spite of the heat of the sun, like the cold surface of an earthenware vase. The sun made all things clear, as though it might dry away even the black shadows of its own creation. The highest branches of the pines shone white, like the soft damp flesh of mushrooms. The curving branches crystallised out into the similarly-curving leaves, whirling the pale sky beyond into a deeper blue, making it come nearer.
For an hour I sat and watched the unchanging pines, watched the light ascending their tall boles and leaving their contorted branches. Bees droned in the heather and the gorse, red admiral butterflies rested in the sun. Swallows and martins fed on insects rising high above the heath. Nothing disturbed my vision of these ancient Nordic pines, herded together here like the last buffalo, living their own intense life, the slow fire that can never be seen. Cut where you will, you cannot find that flame. It can never be seen, any more than you can see the spirit, or soul, of a man.
 
 
I heard a faint drumming sound. Glancing over my shoulder I saw the dark shape of a hawk descending, and sharp wings expanding and contracting. A male hobby alighted on a dead pine branch, sinking down and becoming a surprisingly small bird. His breast was leopard-coloured, mottled with dark brown and white. His upper parts were blue-grey, the colour of a lowering thundercloud. The crown of his head, and his moustachial streaks, were black, contrasting with the dazzling whiteness of his cheeks and throat. The yellow orbital rings, and the large brown eyes they surrounded, glinted in the sun as he turned his head to watch me. He looked arid, burning-eyed, a hawk of the heat, an emanation of the hot pine bark. It was as though the dead branch had suddenly opened to show a dark nerve quivering within. He was restless, staring past me, and glancing at the sky. He leapt upward, rising steeply from the tree, his long wings lashing and twitching with fierce spasmodic power. A black flame burnt swiftly across the heath. Then it was suddenly quenched as it dived through a shining fall of martins and swallows.
 
 
Beyond the crown of pines, the path sloped down to a small stream. Woods rose on the far side, and the landscape slowly changed. The air was very still. Thousands of insects rose from the heather that hummed and crackled with life under the hot sun. The path was white and stony; the turf beside it sounded hollow to the tread. A sleeping adder lay coiled among the stones. The black zigzag markings along its back looked like a thin dark snake resting upon a larger, yellowish one. The drowsy scent of the gorse blossom seemed to shine; the burnt gorse smelt black and bitter. The dark shadows of the first small clouds fanned slow-sweeping arcs of rich maroon across the pale rose-coloured dunes of heather. The droning song of greenfinches came dryly, sleepily, from the deep green shade by the stream.
The stream was hidden beneath a dense tangle of hawthorn and briar. A strange ticking sound emerged from this impregnable zariba. It was like the churring of a very distant nightjar, but drier in timbre, and more continuous. It resembled the rapid mechanical communication of an insect. It fluctuated in volume, and seemed to waver in direction like the fluttering of a compass needle to either side of north. For five minutes this thin thread of sound endured, always about to reach the moment of cessation yet never actually ceasing. It was the soft, introspective, reeling song of a grasshopper warbler. When I went nearer, it stopped; when I retreated, it began again. It was unreal, a sound embedded deep in the silence, masked at once by the slightest tremor of a breeze in the branches. It seemed, at times, to come from within my own brain, a faint alarm-note endlessly signalling through the nerves of the ear, very close and intimate, but also infinitely far off, receding, and elusive. It was impossible to be certain when the song really ceased. Suddenly I realised that I could no longer hear it, and soon it was fading, forgotten, hard to recall. The small bird itself, olive-coloured and slender, remained in cover and was never visible. But even if I had seen it, I would still have been unable to associate that faint huskiness of sound, ascending so steadily into the summer air, with the attenuated warbler flitting and feeding in the dry, sunless world of the thorn-stems.
 
 
While I was listening for the song of the grasshopper warbler to begin again, I heard a curious alarm-call that I did not recognise. It was close to me; a harsh and sibilant impact, like a scythe being sharpened on a whetstone; ‘sheerk, sheerk, sheerk’, repeated many times. It came from a male red-backed shrike, perched high in a dead birch beside the stream. He was very alert, glancing rapidly from side to side as he watched for prey. He was like a sudden flow of cold air piercing the warm current of the summer afternoon. A small bird, hardly bigger than a chaffinch, yet predatory, rapacious, like a hawk unfrocked and diminished. Whitethroats and linnets fluttered about his head, calling with anxious fury. The shrike’s throat contracted and distended. He cast up a shining black pellet that swung beneath his bill by a thread and then dropped down into the stream. He flew off, pursued by the mob.
Ten minutes later he returned to the same perch. He scanned the sky, stared all around, watching every movement of bird or insect. He would hop up from twig to twig till he swayed at the top of the bush, spreading out his wings and tail to keep balanced. He spent most of his time in the numerous small dead birches, but occasionally he perched in thorn bushes. Once he perched high in a rustling poplar. The leaves glinted and turned in the rising wind. Among the shining brown-tinted leaves, which his colour matched so well, the shrike was hard to see. Sometimes he would be silhouetted against the brilliant deep blue of the cirrus-flecked sky, where snowy corals of cloud curled high to the north-west. Beyond the watching shrike, very small and distant, two hobbies circled slowly down wind.
Many whitethroats sang, or grated out their hard, stone-gritting alarm notes. The shrike chased a singing bird, driving it higher when it tried to descend to the bushes. But the whitethroat evaded easily, dropping into cover before the shrike could come within a yard of him. A blue tit and a yellowhammer gleamed among the hawthorns, carrying food for their young. Linnets twittered in the gorse. A jay lurked behind the screening leaves, watching me closely, peering down at the bushes, skulking through thorn and briar, searching for nests. A flock of lapwings flew slowly northwards, black against the intense blue of the sky.
The shrike came near again, returning to the birch where I had first seen him. He perched only ten feet away, apparently indifferent to my presence. The pale blue-grey crown of his wind-ruffled head was almost powdery-white in the sun, curiously unreal, as though it were of felt instead of feathers. The predatory head look disproportionately large compared with the slender body and longish tail. The wide black eye-stripes had a silken shine, like a rippling mask. The chest was pink and white. When he turned away from me, I could see the rich, glossy, fox-red of his back, and the black and white tail that was never still. A chiffchaff sang to the south, and the shrike’s head swung round to watch and listen. The high domed, blindfolded head moved constantly from side to side searching for suitable prey. It resembled the hooded turret of a gun, turning and turning, then suddenly revealing the glint of a metallic eye, beetle-like in the dark mask.
The shrike dropped lower in the dead birch. He swept downwards, and hovered above the bracken, two yards in front of me. His wings beat very fast, blurring and gleaming like a dragonfly’s. Then he fell like a kestrel, plunging down as though he were seizing the prey with his feet. He rose at once, and flew up to the poplar. His flight was surprisingly fast, undulating like a finch, but faster, and with a strange rippling effect. When he alighted in the tree, I saw that he had a stag beetle in his bill. He looked around for a long time before he eventually swallowed the beetle, biting it into three pieces and gulping it down. After five minutes, following a slight relaxation of his rigid alertness, the shrike flew from the poplar to a small oak. From a crevice in one of the branches he picked out an insect, whose movement he must have seen from thirty yards away.
 
 
When I had been watching the shrike for half an hour, I heard a sound like the wheezing of a starling in a small blackthorn bush nearby. I went closer, and saw two young shrikes clinging to twigs six inches above the nest they had just left. They called constantly, and the adult male began to bring food to them. The female I saw once only, when she perched on a dead tree. She was a speckled, chestnut-brown bird, looking slightly smaller and less conspicuous than the male. She was not so tame, and I did not see her feed the young.
The young shrikes were reddish-brown, the same colour as the adult female, and they were remarkably well-hidden among the leaves of the bush. They could not fly, and their wings and tails were still very short and stumpy. They clambered higher in the bush, clumsy but persistent, often falling back as far as they had climbed. Sometimes they fluttered from twig to twig, half-flying, half-falling. Their bills opened wide to show a bright orange gape and to emit their hoarse wheezing calls for food. They pecked at the blackthorn leaves while they waited. They were frog-like, with big heads and small bodies. Their huge saurian eyes gazed at me, or at the blue and green world beyond, with a wide, unfocused, uncomprehending stare, like that of a human baby. But when the male shrike was coming back with food, the eyes of the young changed at once, focusing on the returning bird long before I could see him, following every movement of his flight until he arrived in the bush.
When the male was very close, the calling of the young birds became a single prolonged speech. They would scramble as high in the bush as they could. One was slightly smaller than the other, and less active. For over an hour the male brought food to them at least once every five minutes, sometimes more often. Near the nest he became cautious. He would dive into a neighbouring bush, and would fly low to the young, suddenly appearing beside them. He would push an insect violently into an open gape, and would fly off again at once. The larger, noisier bird was fed more often than the smaller one. The screeching of all three birds would rise to a crescendo as the male landed in the bush. He had difficulty in perching on the same twig as the young, and he sometimes hovered as he fed them. There was much confused fluttering and jostling, and occasionally the food was dropped and not recovered.
The male shrike caught many beetles, taking them from the bracken, or from twigs and branches. Many insects were allowed to pass unpursued. Diptera did not interest him at all. He killed crane flies and great green grasshoppers, and – on one occasion – a golden-ringed dragonfly. The food he brought to the young birds was always the largest of his kills, not the smallest as one might expect. He often banged his prey on a branch, presumably to kill it quickly. His black bill shone wet with the juices of insects.
Suddenly he flew steeply, almost vertically, up into the air, rising high and fast. He seemed to ascend in long jerks, undulating upwards as though catapulted. He darted and jinked from side to side, beating his wings in rapid, irregular flurries. His pale head, bisected by the black eye-bars, shone conspicuously in the sun as he rose. There seemed to be no purpose in this violent upward dash. But high above the shrike a bumble bee slanted quickly away to the north. It had obviously seen its pursuer, and was trying to escape, but it was overtaken in ten seconds. The bee swerved and dodged from side to side, erratic as a bat. The shrike rose steeply above, and poised there for a moment with his black and white tail outspread. Then he swooped down in a flashing crescent, like a stooping hawk. His tail rippled up and fanned out above him as he dived, his head shone black and white. He snatched the bee from the sky, seized it with its bill as though it were motionless. It was a graceful and sudden end, a flourish of brilliant feathers in the sun and then the released pollen drifting up into the blue air. The shrike parachuted down to the poplar, falling in long slants and sudden vertical plunges. He killed his prey on a branch, and took it to the young birds, who had watched his upward flight from their eyrie in the blackthorn bush.
 
 
A sudden small shadow swung across the sunlit bracken. The shrike looked up, then dropped down into a hawthorn. A male hobby flew above, dashing forward and rolling from side to side, cutting into the wind like a swift. His wings were bright with speed, shearing the air, shedding light from their dark blades. His downbent head looked powerful and menacing, like a clenched fist. His tail pointed backwards, very still and rigid, sharpening away from the tall flicker of his wings. He was a lean, narrow, and high-shouldered hawk, shaped like a swift, bow-shaped; but the bow had bulges in it, the protrusive head, the elbow-like carpal joints. He glided smoothly, evenly forward, flowing over the air, skidding over its smoothness like a stone skimming across ice. His hard anchor-shape floated away, dark and sharp-edged. He seemed to be flattened against the sky, without depth. The tips of his narrow wings hung loosely down, like fingers trailed in water. Occasionally the long, curved primaries flexed with a quick swimming movement, like a fish waving itself forward with its fins. He began to catch insects, seizing them with his thin flexible toes and eating them as he glided, bending his head down to meet his upraised foot with no change or check of motion. Sheathed in his swept-back wings, he dived at a dragonfly that shone above the stream. His extended talons seemed to tear the sky down with him. Speed shattered his shape. I saw only fragments of grey and white and orange. The he swept upward, shaking the sky from his wings. The broken colours closed to black, and shrank small, as the long wings scythed and scythed him away towards the distant eastern pine wood.
The hobby is always the perfect epitome of the places it frequents. On the downs it is a hawk of the open land, of the grassy air and the singing light, a hunter of pipits and larks. By the river it is a water falcon, shining and rippling through the reflections of its prey, capturing dragonflies, spearing swallows and martins. Here on the heath it is like an intense flame that has cooled and condensed to the hard form of a falcon. Its wings are like the dark chitin of a beetle’s shard. It is a bird of the dry gorse, the pines, and the heather, feeding mainly upon moths, beetles, linnets, and warblers. The hobby has a liking for the astringent juices of insects, and for the bitter flesh of the birds and bats that prey upon them: though whether a hawk can actually taste its food can only be conjectured. It lives in those places where the late summer is richest, where birds and insects abound. It is a hawk of the south, startling and beautiful as it suddenly hurtles above in the violent flamenco of its flight.
 
 
By four o’clock the wind that had risen at midday had declined to a faint warm breeze from the south. The heat-haze hovered and glittered over the white path across the heather, like the gleaming wings of innumerable dragonflies. Many grasshoppers sang in the gorse, but most of the birds were silent. Occasionally I heard the muffled cooing of a turtle dove, or the dry-throated, difficult song of a reed bunting. The air smelt and tasted of the heat, arid and dusty as dead bracken. Far to the west, beyond the clump of pines, red and yellow spires of flame bled slowly up into black smoke. Trees flared like torches of pitch, and were left autumnal, their leaves fading from brilliant orange to dull brown or black. Rainbow streams of water curved up from hidden hoses. Soon there were no flames, but only the black smoke rolling upward with vicious speed, the heath slowly dying into the devouring air.
 
 
I followed the stream to the north till I came to a pond. It was roughly circular in shape, not more than fifty yards across, dark and still, with a fringe of green marsh. It was surrounded by small birches, gorse, and a few dwarf oaks and hawthorns. There was a smell of fox in the brackish air. The vanishing white scuts of rabbits flashed and bobbed in the sun. Willow warblers sang, and a solitary bullfinch called.
On a post beside the pond, sprung upward like a brown fungus in a green lawn, a sparrowhawk was perching. The black pupils of his eyes were small in the sun, deep sunk in the yellow smoulder of the raging irises. His thin toes clutched the post, like skinny yellow hands. Swallows and sand martins swooped and chattered about his narrow head. He crouched low, and squinted up at them. He watched the dark green of the gorse, waiting for a wing to flame. At the same moment I saw the white speck of a stonechat’s rump and the hawk’s reflection cleaving through the water. The stonechat tumbled into cover. The hawks’ foot trailed over him, swinging emptily, scrabbling loose air. The hawk flew on across the heath, without looking back. The stonechat flitted up on to the gorse again, the swallows and martins descended to the pond. I remembered the sulphurous glare of the hawk, and I touched the post where he had perched. There was of course no mark, no imprint on the wood. So intense a bird, breathing out such a heat of hunger, yet he left no mark. It was as though fire could be as cold and printless to the hand as water.
 
 
I stayed by the pond, while the sun sank below the heat of the day receded into the cool blue evening haze. More birds sang: willow warblers, whitethroats, a hedge sparrow, and a wren. The heather darkened, becoming greenish black, as it is in winter. I could smell the birch leaves. The dry earth was still quite warm to the touch. The call of a curlew rose from the sombre heath, like the sad voice of a shadow, proclaiming solitude, the passing of day, night’s wilderness returning. A small breeze ravelled at the water’s edge, and the calm reflections began to tremble like dark sails.
Swallows and swifts were still hawking for insects when the first nightjar sang. Daubenton’s bats flickered low above the water, their wings creaking like harness. A white migraine of ghost moths fluttered in the black gorse. With a hollow whistle of air, the sharp wing of a hobby skated over the shining skin of the pond. Then there were three hobbies, curving, darting, snatching at the dusk. The swallows disappeared, but the swifts remained. The hobbies fed upon insects, chased the swifts, pursued one another. They flew through an endless labyrinth, a maze of shuddering wings. They rose higher as the insects rose. They circled among swifts. The fretted surface of the pond seemed to float up into the sky. The sharp outline of the swooping wings contracted. They blurred, became small and misty, hawks of dark air. Then they vanished. The wild screaming of the swifts faded quite suddenly. Up there it was still day. I was in darkness, but they had found the light.


The air is cold. The last owls call softly in the ebb of night. The drenched leaves are drab, the blossom limp, the grass grey with dew. A thin film of light is forming upon the surface of the garden. Rooks caw in the lifting sky. One by one the songs of birds shine through. Hedge sparrows, robins, blackbirds, thrushes, wrens, sing with growing vehemence and power. The air moves, and slowly rises, is translated into light. Starlings run over the wet grass, their flesh-coloured feet dark-webbed with moisture. The black swallows are conjured into blue. The immense cloud of sapphire light that is the sun moves up into the eastern sky. A forest of shadows falls suddenly across the shining lawns.
The first cuckoo calls in the hollow air of the owls. Bullfinches glow in the white hawthorn blossom. I cycle through the waking town, leaving the gold and silver garden-voices of the blackbirds and thrushes, rising up into the singing blue of the skylarks. Moorhens call from the roadside ponds, their red and yellow bills parting the reeds, their black and white tails flashing and vanishing. The trailing boughs of the weeping willows are slender, arrowy, like slow green rain arrested. A wren sings, and drifts down like a sharp brown leaf, shivering with the force of his trill. The hoarse calling of young starlings mingles with the answering harshness of the adult birds as they bring food to the gaping beaks. The introspective pines are dark with unsurrendered night.
 
 
The shadowed farmyards swoop and rise through an endless undulation of swallows and martins. A pied wagtail dances his dark feet upon the puddled water, seizing the first insects in their low bewildered flight. Maned by the morning mist, a sleeping shire horse stands. Mushrooms have grown beneath him, wandering upward where his feathered hooves have shone. A dead mouse dries in the sun, carried high in the jaws of a roan-wet stoat. A sudden breeze shivers through the flowing barley, and the poplar leaves patter and shine. The running hare has eyes of sunlight. A kestrel rises slowly from the dead branch of an ash. His small shadow circles out above the steaming fields. He gleams and fades, glinting like a golden cross.
The aromatic constellations of cow parsley glimmer like a white mist in the meadows and the grass verges. Goldfinches sing in the cottage gardens, like a tinkle of chilled wine. The wallflowers have a warm and smothering smell, entranced with bees. The village sky is cold with the sharp blades of hurtling swifts. The song of a greenfinch ripens among the apple blossom. The votive churchyard yews are slow to assume the sun.
 
 
The day has drifted down from the pure height of the morning, and the first white shower clouds move slowly through the sky. The road lifts, and the air suddenly changes. Long fields and orchards reach out to the horizon. Distant hills fringe the great circle of the earth and sky. The wide-spaced brown and yellow farmhouses rise slowly from the upland plain. Each one is overshadowed by its ivory cloud of horse chestnut trees in blossom. The trees are visible far off. They are a dim white haze that grows larger as I approach, but does not come any nearer. They have an overhanging look, like slow white smoke declining. The darkness between the boughs is bleak and wintry. The dark green leaves droop as though they were already dying, but the white flowers stand erect, pagoda-like, priested by bees. The duck-paddled mud of the farmyards, the feathered ponds, the wing-creaking barns, the mossy roofs, the curtain-fluttering windows big with sky: all are shadowed and borne upward by the slow-burning horse chestnuts aspiring into clouds.
The road shines across the flat land. The farms sink slowly down till only the white smoke of their blossom remains. In the darkness of memory the majestic horse chestnuts will rise again, monumentally still, standing like phantom white stallions above the fallen air of the empty stables.
Tall elms tower over the narrow lanes and at the edges of the wide fields. The air seems to move perpetually in those dark trees, rising into the high branches, floating the black rooks upward. Cock pheasants strut in the green corn, arrogant-coloured, copper-bronze. They stamp the arrows of their footprints down into the damp earth, and their scaly toes lift tiny fragments of soil that fall and glitter in the sun. The corn is as soft to the touch as a breeze moving gently against the fingers.
 
 
Where three roads meet, there is a small grove of slender larches and Scots pine. Sometimes a chaffinch sings here, or blue tits call, but there are no nests. Pine cones lie in the lane throughout the year, cryptic and strangely beautiful, like the symbols of an unknown language. They are shattered to fruitless seed by the pressure of passing traffic. Within the grove there is always a smell of sun-warmed resin, whether or not the sun is shining. The spirit of this place is elusive, it escapes into the surrounding air. Yet something breathes upon the edge of vision, like rain beginning. It touches the senses lightly, then departs. At a distance the grove seems to have entity, the self-possession of a single tree. But go in, and at once the wholeness leaps apart, fragmenting into more than individual trees. In spring, the grove smells of summer; in summer it smells of other summers, of the past. It is always beyond the present heat.
Skylarks sing in the shining haze of blue above the cornfields. They spiral up, hovering high and small, clinging to the sky with trembling wings. For five minutes they are bent to the wind, tense and tightly strung. Then they sink down, falling slowly towards the green earth that rises to meet them. A foot above the field they skim and flutter, making the corn fan out beneath. Suddenly they drop down, and are hidden. But soon they are running forward again, unable to be still, rising into the climbing flight of their song, their endless exaltation.
 
 
An avenue of limes appears in the upland plain. There is no gate. I turn in from the road, and the way between the spreading trees is damp and narrow, covered with fallen branches, nettles, and dead leaves. At the end, where there should be a house, the sky descends. Only rubble remains. The air smells of nettles and brick-dust. The morning light has gone. The ruins sink deeper under the gloom of the massed clouds.
Slowly the rain begins, the sky dissolving into smudgy grey, green light falling over the dark elms. I shelter in the untouched barn. The bales of hay and straw are stacked high, a nebulous glow, a soft yellow shining that fades up into prickly dusk. The cold smell of the rain drifts in, mingling with the musty, ancient smell of the barn. The lower half of the open door bangs shut in a sudden gust of wind and rain; the upper half becomes a square, framing the brilliant elms, the changing, rainsailed sky. The gleam of the bales rises in the greater darkness, like a breath of candle-flame. At the western end of the barn, constellations of dazzling light pierce through chinks in the dark boards. The flow of light from the doorway washes the wooden beams and posts till they shine like stone. The rain-cloud hangs above, as though it would enter; then it moves eastward, and blue sky appears. The rain drills heavily down upon the roof. A swallow strikes in through the wet air of the doorway, igniting the darkness with a sudden flare of blue. It swoops, and rises to the rafters, feeds its young in their clinging nest, swoops, and flies out into the rain.
Swallows and martins twitch endlessly through the rainlit air between the barn and the shrouded trees at the edge of the field. The harp-shaped elms are inhabited by the wind. They have a life of their own out there, cold and strange and glistening, like huge birds. Here in the barn, all is sleepy. The sparrows’ chirping voices are bright nails in the dry grain of the air. Nothing changes but the shape of my own thoughts.
The chance of the rain has sent me into this barn, a place I would not otherwise have seen and to which there may never be any reason to return. I possess a sudden freedom. I have entered an illumination like the sculptured moonlight of a dream, a cave within the vagary of the streaming day. These things around me, in their unguarded plainness, have now an ethereal beauty, as though they shone in the momentary revelation of the lightning flash.
The floor of the barn is simply the dry earth, uneven, crusted hard, drifted with a film of dust, spilt grain, crushed hay, the distillation of forgotten summers. Sparrows fly down and feed close to my feet, their eyes gleaming as they glance up at me. A distant blackbird sings, a vista of endless orchards opening through the reflection of his voice. Up in the darkness of the roof, the rain murmurs. The elms have lost their light. They look huddled and disconsolate now, their branches parting to reveal the brilliant duck-floating eye of a pond. A wet starlight of cow parsley shines in the green flow of the grass at the roots of the tossing trees. Slowly the sky takes shape in the flooded farmyard, blue and white water clouding over the brown earth.
Wind-wrenched, the half-door staggers open. The sun shines suddenly, spearing the water with a blade of light, printing black shadows. The rain seems to die away upward, shrinking back into the whiter clouds. I go out, and stand in the rain-fretted hollow of the sunlit air. I look back into the barn and see, for the first time, a white owl perched on a high beam. Its closed face has an implacable calm, dream-webbed, the perfect mask. It seems to breathe through a snorkel, being itself submerged, far down below the surface of the day.
 
 
The rubble of the fallen house has not been changed by the rain. There is a feeling of enclosure here, as though the dust of the walls still hovered in the drying air. This dust was a Tudor hall, timbered, angular, dark-windowed, facing the avenue of limes and the generations of horsemen riding home. The planted bushes and flowers of the garden are hidden deeper each year by the encroachment of thorn and bramble, by the shining victory of grass. A bullfinch alights on a stem of ash. The dense brick-red colour of his breast is reflected as a faint orange glow in the wet grey-purple of the ash bark.
Hidden by the elms of the pond, there is a small orchard of plum and apple trees, untouched for many years. The wind-fallen fruit is scanty and sour, and is eaten only by the birds. The grass is long, sere, and uncut, sighing with a fretful whiteness of wild chervil. The trees slant and twist upward. Their boles are grey and mossy. The place is quite unpossessed now. It has sloughed off the human presence. It seems to be too late for growth here, too soon for decay. It is beyond the reach of human love. Bullfinches call among the uncertain blossom. A blackbird sings. A surface has formed here; there is a bloom upon the air. A willow warbler flits from tree to tree, its song descending; but it does not stay. Nothing stays. A lurking jay flies through, and close by a cuckoo calls. Swallows touch the outer sky, but do not come any nearer. The light seems to be draped from tree to tree, like cobwebs that have been undisturbed for many years. The fruit may be sour and small, but the orchard itself has ripened. It is like a sphere of sequestered light and air. In time to come it will fall or be destroyed. But to-day it hangs in its own rich mellow ripeness from the suspending sky.
 
 
I go back to the road. Woodpigeons fly up from the trees, hundreds of clattering grey birds turning mauve as they rise into the sunlight, their white wing-bars and white-ringed necks gleaming. Then the sun is clouded over, and the woodpigeons turn black. Dark nets of distant rain trawl slowly through the light. The far hills are the colour of grey sea. Golden dandelions glow in the wet grass. I cycle through the gleam of rain and the reflections of white clouds. The green verges shine beneath the burnishing wings of the swallows. The ashen scent of the may mingles with the fragrance of the drying road.
In the corner of a field, penned in by hurdles, a pig sleeps upon straw. Its big floppy ears cover its eyes, like shading hands. It has the unreal appearance of something that has been discarded, like a blotched and bursting bolster. Its nose twitches, its ears question the silence; then slowly life rumbles back. But this does not alter the stranded, sacrificial shape, the look of helplessness.
Above the pig, a turtle dove rests drowsily upon a hurdle. A yellowhammer sings in the hedge, turning his brilliant buttercup-yellow head from side to side. The long ears of a hare are waking in the field. The hare casts about among the furrows, creeping slowly over the big brown clods, dragging its back legs stiffly forward. One large eye, the dark pupil visible in the clear light, watches me unwinkingly. It is raised above the level of the fawn face, bulbous, fearful, and very remote. There is no sign that it can see me. The hare seems to grovel, placating the earth, close to it, clumsy in movement, as though something had been broken, in body as well as in spirit. When I go nearer, it sinks small. Its tall ears bend, and slowly decline. Then it is off, lifting over the furrows lightly, spurting away in little puffs of brown earth, thudding deep into the long grass of the pasture, into what it does not yet know will be a hiding-place.
 
 
The still distances of the upland plain are slowly hidden by trees, and I come to rich meadows where cattle graze. The deep chrome-yellow glow of the buttercups is so dazzling that the eye cannot focus on an individual flower. Speedwell rises through the grass, like blue flood-water. A magpie swaggers and sidles among the buttercups, and his shape is faintly reflected in their liquid yellow shining. His white markings glisten in the sun. His head and back and wings are stained with the vivid colours of ink, black, blue-black, or blue. As he moves, they flicker with rainbow gleams of green and violet.
The footpath leads to a wood in the middle of the meadows. It is an intense, concentrated place, where the bright green leaves of ash and sycamore and willow are sombred over by the inner core of shadowy cypresses and firs. The wood is crossed diagonally by a broad green ride that curves from corner to corner. The grass is damp and shiny, and is never cut. The sun does not reach down to it, for the ride is enclosed by lines of tall Douglas and Noble firs. The branches of these great trees have never been lopped. They trail to the ground, they touch and entangle. They have an atmosphere of decay, a charnel breath, as though they were hung with huge bats cloaked in their inverted wings. They are unmoving, unchangeable, possess by a green dusk that is like a moss growing upon the light. Elders have risen beneath, from seeds that have fallen in the droppings of roosting starlings. There are many stinging nettles, shaped like the first above them. The ground is soft and spongy with dead leaves. Under a dark Noble fir there are three large cones. They are heavy, and cold, with a mineral density, as though they had been formed in the strata of the leaves. The bark of the tree is hard and rugose, as enduring and impervious as rhinoceros hide. Here in the shadowed wood I seem to have lost the day. I have stepped into another season, which is neither winter nor spring. It is as though a Victorian summer had been embalmed here for a hundred years.
A single Douglas fir, broken at the top yet growing still, like the shattered mast of a ship become a tree again, reaches far up into the light. Its highest branches shine above the other trees, like a palm above the sea. Thirty feet up, pressed close to the bole of the fir, a long-eared owl is perching. It is a wooden shape, rigid, stretched-out, looking too thin and gaunt to be an owl. It is like a tall, upright cone, a growth of the tree. The tufts of feathers, which look like ears, are erect, vertical, very close together on the top of its head. Its eyes are open, looking down at me. In the fir shadows, they shine with a deep honey-coloured glow, a rich golden-orange. Seeing it has been discovered, the owl turns and – without noise or effort – sinks suddenly down into darkness. There is a displacement of air among the shadows, an adumbration of wings. Bullfinches are calling beyond the dark fortress of the firs, in the lost present. A blackcap’s song has a bubbling, swift-running radiance, like fish-scales flashing. There is a sound of mobbing, of scolding birds pursuing an owl. It is very far off. It seems to come to me through the growth-rings of many years, as though I were standing at the heart of a tree.
 
 
It is a relief to emerge into the warmth of the late evening sun, to leave the subterranean light, the oppressive swamp-dusk of the firs. The ride crosses a plantation of small larches. There is a smell of recent rain. The wet green larches shine with the songs of birds. Somewhere a cuckoo calls, a beautiful monotony of sound floating to silence on the marisma of the bluebells. The pure green song of a willow warbler descends from a larch, a bright cascade of notes drifting down through the daffodil richness of a blackbird’s pondering voice. There is a line of tall trees at the end of the ride. A bronze light shines in the brilliant green of the oak leaves. A moorhen calls from the cloudless blue of a pond. The song of a blackcap rises from the marshy undergrowth of the brambles. It is like a small white fountain rising, an ascending curve of hurrying notes that rushes upward to end with a sudden flourish, like the sun flying through water.
As I return to the road, the sky darkens with cloud, and the slow summer rain begins. The sunlit brightness of the wood moves away into a smoke of blue shadow. The dark horse chestnut leaves are harsh with rain, and a cold wind rises, battering the icons of the blossom.
The road leads to a hill, and the plain below is hidden in the grey wake of the rain-clouds. There is nothing beyond. The day is over. The white may smells only of the rain.
I cycle downhill, freewheeling under the low branches of the dripping trees, falling slowly through the caves of green spray and the flowing blue flight of the misty swallows. The breathless smell of the woods surges through the wet air. Green fields stream up and meet above my head.
The fine rain is like a cloud of twigs parting endlessly in front of my face. Strange distorted trees stride past. I plunge deep into the darkness of the valley: wet stars, owls calling, the forlorn bark of a fox. The white parsley flutters at the wheels. There is a prickling of black swifts in the grey river sky. The Lombardy poplars have grown tall with night. I am lost in the shining forest of the rain.
The pine wood hides the sun, like a dark northern god rising in menace above the white road that falls steeply to the west, and the small green hills beyond are receding into a grey autumnal haze. The high town silvers in sunlight, and its sky is barbed with curving swifts. But already the night’s simplicity is settling upon the valley. Under the exotic flowering of the early lights, a blue Venetian dusk laps at the windows of the shadowed houses. As I watch, the high town is extinguished, and its shining sky ascends. The stiff-feathered pines shed their darkness into the still air.
A twilight of luminous birches glimmers upon the blackness of the pines. I sink into the mossy summer-woodland smell of the birch leaves. It is a sweet herbivorous breath, like the smell of rain drying away from the hot road. It rises from the wood like a corona of green mist. It is a cave that leads into another world; the subterranean, removed world of the summer night.
A dead mole lies on its back in the path, as though it had fallen from the sky. It is solid and heavy, but the pouchy fur is as soft as the skin of a peach. Its slack feet seem to crumple the air, like small white hands. Its jaws have sagged apart, and a red gape shows between. The teeth are pointed and sharp. There is no pathos in this predatory face. The mouth is held open as though the mole were panting. It is vivid and startling, like an inexplicable splash of blood.
A cuckoo calls, deep in the western silence. The rutted path curves down between dense plantations of fifteen-foot pines. My sense of direction is lost at once. A few tall and dying oaks stand high above the conifers. Redpolls fly overhead, their dry trills rippling through the warm air. All around me the indigo pines are turning black. They have a stifling intensity, as though they were holding their breath. It is comforting to touch them, the cool needles brisk to the fingers, the resinous scent starry upon the hand. Darkness is drifting slowly down from the pine branches. The silence of its soft descent is almost audible. Very remote now, thrushes and robins are singing.
A strange roaring rises from the pines, heavy and gasping, spasmodic, like the bellowing of a bull. I cannot tell whether it is close or far off. It is a forlorn, curiously instrumental sound, half bovine, half human: the call of a red deer stag. The first three or four notes are drawn out, declamatory, each one a little longer and louder than the last, an inquisitorial challenging of the night air. There is a brief pause. This is followed by three or four short barking notes, declining and deepening, becoming shorter and softer. Then the call ceases abruptly, as though suddenly muffled by a hand. Four times, with prolonged, bristling pauses of expectancy between, the vibrant, husky roaring of the stag is repeated. It seems to rise up from the earth itself, like the snarling blast of a primitive trumpet, musty with the breath of decay. It is a pent-up, hostile savagery of sound released into the dusk in long horn-like curves, anguished and unfulfilled. When the last roar has faded, there is no other noise, no movement in the trees. I can imagine the stag’s head sinking down, bowed beneath its bush of antlers, listening for the soft terror of my tread.
 
 
I go deeper into the wood. Here the trees are scattered among open spaces of bracken. There is a faint swishing. Forty yards away, between two oaks, a red deer hind stands watching me. Her fawn colour shines, a pale glow against the grey of the trees and the green of the bracken. Her long neck looks taut and strained with fear. Her head is carefully poised, her large ears quiver, her dark muzzle is held high. She has a bewildered, unicorn sadness, beautiful, doomed, and mute. After several seconds’ gazing, she bounds heavily into cover, her back legs plunging and trembling away. As the crushed bracken straightens, a tree pipit sings for the last time before sunrise, floating down from the top of a pine.
There is a rustle of roosting birds in the pale cloud of the rhododendron thicket. The red blossom is black, but the white still shines. The song of a tawny owl quavers through the hollows of the air. The owl flies northward. I can follow its trail by listening to the scolding blackbirds. As the air cools, and darkens, the owl’s song seems to deepen, echoing through the temple of the night. It begins with a single declarative note, brief, tremulous, and loud. There is a long pause, an absolute silence in which no bird calls, as though all are waiting – as I am – for the rest of the song to follow. Then it comes, circling out into the imposed silence, thrilling among the trees like a glimmer of dark blue lightning. The scolding of the blackbirds ends quite suddenly; the go to roost, and the owl begins to hunt. The western light gleams faintly between the boles of the trees in narrow vertical strips of green and yellow, like blades of tall grass. But this grass light withers quickly down, as though devoured by fire, and all is grey.
 
 
Ten minutes after sunset, deep in the heavy-swirling dusk, I hear the hoarse bass croaking of a woodcock, followed at once by its shrill bat-like chirrup. The sound comes from the north. The woodcock flies overhead, fifty feet up, moving much faster than I expected, silhouetted against the sky. Its wing-beats are quick, and rather shallow; a steady winnowing, like the flight of a noctule bat. It is a blurred shape, and I cannot see its bill. It does not fly straight. Every twenty yards or so it veers on to a different course. It calls frequently; the five-syllabled croak and then the thin piping whistle. The croak has an odd, mechanical timbre. It is a wooden stridulation, very deep-throated and dryly rasping, as a grasshopper might sound if its song were artificially slowed down. The shrill squeaking, which follows without any pause at all, seems as though it must either be produced in a different manner or come from a different bird. It is a high sniggering that carries a great distance, so that I can hear it fading down into the valley, above the line of the stream, long after the preceding croak is quite inaudible.
Five minutes later, I again hear the woodcock approaching from the north. It calls several times before it appears, flying in the same direction, but not as fast. Through the binoculars I can see that its long bill is pointing forwards at an angle of thirty degrees below the horizontal. The croaking call is uttered without any visible opening of the bill; the mandibles are parted slightly for the high-pitched chirrup. At the first note of the croak, the woodcock’s wing-beat falters. The broad wings seem to stutter for a few seconds. The bird changes course, a bulky shape rapidly twisting and turning. This brief, staccato fumbling at the air is very quickly done and difficult to see. The owl-like wings seem to hang limp and still for a moment, then they flutter erratically before resuming their normal steady pulsation.
This curious display-flight, known as roding, continues for twenty minutes. The only sounds I can hear are the occasional calling of the woodcock, the whining of mosquitoes, and the creaking of a dead leaf or twig under the weight of a mouse. The upcurving branches of the young cactus-shaped pines are tapered with a candelabra of new shoots. Their bright lime-green colour burns white in the dusk. The dark sea of the wood is phosphorescent with their pale uplifted flames. I can smell the heavy pine-lit air and the drenched summer green of the bracken.
Two crows fly heavily through the wood. Their harsh night-calls echo among the trees. A hobby glides above, silent and secret as an owl, its wings shaped like small black sails. Its fencing, darting pursuit of moths and beetles is like the nightjar’s flight. Sails suddenly furling, it drops away among the dark trees, like a thrown sickle curving back to earth. Darkness rises in the wood and floats out into the surrounding fields. Only the paths still shine. Bats feel their way deftly across the face of the sky, falling and clinging. The hobby glides from the trees, wings pricking black against the faint light of the first stars. It chases a bat, a large shadow hooding a small one. I can see nothing more, but I hear the hollow reed-sound of the stoop, and feel the cold rushing of the air.
 
 
Very far off, so quietly that I cannot be certain whether or not I am really hearing it, the churring song of a nightjar seems to furrow the smooth surface of the silence. Forgetful of paths, I plunge into the implacable night of the pines, rushing towards that narrow stream of murmuring song that may at any moment dry away. Here and there I touch the luminosity of birch bark. Twigs snap beneath my feet, flick across my face. A mist of corn comes whitely towards me, gliding up between trees that drift apart. Suddenly I am at the edge of the wood. The corn is like a white fogbank rising in front of me. The nightjar’s song is closer now, but still a long way off. Stumbling under low branches, I find a path to follow. The song grows louder; then it stops. The white ghost moths flit above the bracken. A tawny owl moans softly. Red-legged partridges call from the cornfield.
There is a sudden ‘kwoink’, a deep rich sound, like a cork being pulled from a large and echoing glass bottle. It is the flight-call of the nightjar. Something dances in the air above me, flits and bounces upon air; long tail, long wings; a blur imprinted softly, and withdrawn; the nightjar has come and gone. The last light withers. Nothing happens. The highest branch of a dead oak widens at the top. The nightjar is perching lengthwise along the branch. His body lies low and flat, but his head is held upward. There is a soft chirrup, as though his syrinx clicked and spluttered; then the song begins. It starts far away, and seems to come slowly nearer. Suddenly it is very near. It increases rapidly in speed and volume. The bill is held wide open. The upraised head of the bird is large and frog-like. It flicks quickly from side to side, and the song changes in pitch and volume, seems then to come from some more distant nightjar. It rises and falls, an unbroken flow of sound, like the reeling-in of a fishing-line, but much louder and deeper, as though it were winding in the last faint threads of light.
When heard at a distance, a nightjar’s song can seem metallic, monotonous; but among the trees, close to the ear, it has a wonderfully musical dryness of timbre. It pulsates. The pitch changes every fifteen seconds, and the change is always preceded by a very short pause, like a change of gear. The sound is dimmed momentarily, and then released. The song can be heard for half a mile on a still night; at twenty yards it is astonishingly loud. The air trembles with it. It does not die away; it gathers between the trees and flows out into the wood. The whole of the May night is coiled within this song: the dark-smelling winy fragrance of the wood, the fading fragments of dead sky, the wolfish pines glittering with the early stars, the dry freaking of a bat, the hot tweedy smell of the damp earth. It is a sound the ear can never completely lose. It seems to emerge from an earlier darkness, before there was fire, when all such harmless sounds were a comfort, a soothing for the fever of fear that scorched man’s sleep in the woods.
The song stops. Just as it seemed as though it would never end, it snaps abruptly away. It seems to pierce the gloom with a visible, decisive spark. After a few seconds of the intense velvet darkness that follows the vanishing of a brilliant light, the nightjar leaps from his perch, his soft-flying wings reaching high above his head. The song falls back into his throat as he rises. He glides downward, and it shakes out in deep bubbling trills, runs out in sudden spurts and rushes, as though he were going down into deep water. There is a sharp smacking sound, like the smacking fall of a fish on to the surface of a pond. The nightjar rises again, and I can see that he is clapping his wings together above his back. Five times this loud wet clapping of the wings is repeated. It is a hollow sound, like the clapping of cupped hands or the slapping fall of a plank upon mud. It is like an invocation to the night, the ceremonial summoning of a god. A second bird, the female, calls close by. The two nightjars dance upon the sword-points of the stars. They swoop between the pines on the far side of the path. The wing-clapping begins again. One bird chases a big moth, diving down into greater silences, deeper shadows. They disappear. The pine crests are sharp and uncompromising against the sky. All else is very dark. The earth is abandoned to the incoming night.
 
 
The darkness of the wood is so intense that it seems to shine with a dim, skeletal light. There is a sense of hidden life, of endless movement, hunger, combat, like the dark warmth of the tidal blood. A nightjar twirls above. Behind it, leaping forward with wings curving back like immense sickle claws, is a hobby. I cannot tell whether it is pursuing the nightjar or swooping at the moths the nightjar feeds upon. It leaves a wake of stars. The night-darkened mind of the hawk seems to glow like the nebula of a distant city, as though the celestial glitter of its eyes shone from within.
A tawny owl beats down the dark ride. Many points of light, visible to him though I cannot see them, gleam in the grass and the bracken like a dew of fallen stars beneath the shadow of his wings. Something shrieks as the owl descends, bringing the endless darkness that follows the shreds of fire. Somewhere a life hangs limp; the still blood, in its continent of fur, hanging from the cold talons that have drawn the last flame. The death of an animal is very quiet, whether it is the slow suffocation of disease or the sudden leap from life of the slain. The owl’s hollow voice floats like a sail in the dark stream of the ride.
 
 
The nightjar sings again on the far side of the pines. The sound is pure and remote now. Like the darkness, it is colder, harder, pierced by the bristling stars. I go down through the wood with the song fading back behind me, fading to a faint line of sound, a thread that thins and frays and then snaps away. My feet slither on the sun-polished earth that still glimmers with light. The sky is softly black, bending over me like the moist eye of a deer.
The road slopes down, cold now, but webbed with hollows of warmth between tall hedges. The rich smell of the wood withdraws. Below me are the lights of the town, like a ship that can never depart.
The thick fog smells stale and rusty, like old metal. Trees reach up into webs of fog, and their branches touch away to nothing. The condensation falls from them like rain. Birds are tame. They fly low and carefully. There is a deep vibration of distant traffic. My clothes bristle silver-grey with fog, like a growth of rimy beard.
The lane to the hillside farm rises steeply, and the fog begins to shine. The hill air is lighter. Glistening cobwebs trail from the hedges and flash in filaments of green and copper as the sun comes through. A chiffchaff sings. There is a thin whisper of bird-sounds, husky in the wet trees.
The tall hedges are vined with clematis, bryony, and bindweed. Woodpigeons clatter from the unseen fields. Robins and starlings sing in the white cloud of an oak. Magpies chatter. Linnets and goldfinches flutter from the swaying thistles, and are lost in the grey dusk of a hawthorn hedge. The mealy white flowers of the wild angelica look like flowers of mist.
 
 
The whiteness darkens into the shapes of buildings, the brown and yellow breath of a barn, the ruined grey of a farmhouse. The gate has crumbled down into the nettles and cow parsley. The mouldering stables smell old with emptiness. Swallows and martins are dark sounds in the white air. The barn is still used. A dusty sunlight of hay rises up into shadow, shouldering the cobwebbed rafters. There is a leather gloom of sleeping bats.
The fog is warmer here. It drips from the ivy on the roofless walls of the house, where sparrows are chirping. The scent of a fox drifts in from the rutted yard. Each object, clear-centred but with dim contours, is so much more itself now, isolated in the opaque milky whiteness of the fog. The owl-soft air of desertion, of abandonment, grows taller, denser, as the years pass. Lightly as a fox, as a fox in a farmyard, I tread past the empty stable, the still barns, whose silence seems to tingle with just-departed footsteps. Man has no place here now. He is a migrant only. He does not stay.
The sun shines beyond the fog, and there is warmth in the moist woody pith of the air. The song of a swallow ripples above. A moorhen calls from the smell of a pond. The praying shafts of a cart are white with the bird-droppings of many years, and there are owl-pellets in the grass beneath. The head of a shire horse comes forward from the fog. It stares in from the mist of the past. Its breath is a starry vapour. The blaze upon its forehead has a supernal shine. The horse seems to be waiting still, after a lifetime of waiting, as though it were watching the inexorable approach of something far-off. Whether it hopes for release, or fears some further bondage, the great eyes cannot reveal. I move nearer, and the head vanishes.
 
 
The ruined farm is only a mile from the sea. It has a pelagic air, as though it were an abandoned wreck, the bones of a stranded Viking ship. Above the farm, a small field slopes up to the north-east. The dropping yellow petals of the ragwort lighten the stony grass. The field narrows to an overgrown bridle-path that rises steeply into the fog. I pass the single leaning gatepost, dim and grey with moss, like a weathered menhir, and go up into the green rain of the overhanging bushes and trees.
The aspens are still. Their leaves look limp and disused. It is as though something inside the tree had been broken. Near a small pond, an accumulation of water in the undrained humus of the dead leaves, I hear the nasal call of a willow tit, a narrow parsimony of sound. The tall hedges on either side of the path are like lines of dense woodland: oak, elm, elder, willow, hawthorn, hazel, bramble, and briar, are entangled together. The ground has been trodden into a morass by the hooves of cattle. This is the only path to the hill, but there are no footprints in the mud. No one comes here now. There is no spoor of man; no litter, no cartridge-cases, no unwanted metal. The unseen hill stands above me in the fog, like a lost land.
Many birds are feeding in the hedges. They flutter and call ahead of me as I walk slowly upward. A wren sings. Pale sunlight gleams occasionally through the drifting fog. A spotted flycatcher shines under an over-arching canopy of oaks and maples. It darts sudden curves of light through the deep, insect-humming shade. Its looping flight is like a fisherman’s cast line, whirling, falling, returning. It catches small insects, closing the thin mandibles of its bill upon the prey with a loud decisive snap, a sharp and clearly audible sound, like the clink of stone on stone. It perches on low branches, an upright, pale-chested, faded-looking brown bird, its high-domed head shining in hazy sunlight. A hunting swallow flits through the same deep air. The flycatcher darts up into the dusk above and loops back and down to its perch again with a dry whirr of wings and a snap, as though it were attached to the tree by elastic. The small rodent-like face is turned towards me, but the eyes are oblivious, insect-intent.
The path widens, then suddenly ends. The hedges thicken, and become a wood. There was a farm here once. Not a stone remains. A robin sings in the wood. Fog swirls through the opaque yellow sunlight. It is midday. The air smells of imminent heat.
 
 
I scramble into the wood, forcing a way through the dense undergrowth. Whatever paths there may once have been, trodden by foxes and badgers but never by human feet, are hidden now by the rank summer growth. The whole wood seems to be falling inwards, caving in upon the light. It is a fly-ridden wilderness of oak and maple, bracken and willow-herb, holding up empty nests and the soft calling of young birds. The trees droop heavily with the drowsy song of the woodpigeons. The glaucous leaves of the tall thistles have a rigid, attentive stillness. The call of a jay rasps through the quiet air. The woodpigeons clap their wings as they rise and sink in their display-flight, tracing steep gable-shapes from tree to tree. Here and there, to the south, a vapour of blue distance floats between the trees and the drifting fog. Suddenly, unexpectedly, a blackcap sings, a loud, clear, fresh sound, brightening the dim late-summer haze, the stillness no breeze can dispel. Then the dark shadow of the hot silence closes in again.
At the bottom of a slope the air is green and stagnant, like still water. The curdled smell of the meadowsweet seems heavy and despondent. The silence of the air, the silence of the trees: two silences leaning together, leaning up towards the hot sky. The place smells sour. There is a subdued twitter of distant birds, but near me nothing moves. The trees are rotting, and many fallen branches crumble and snap beneath my feet. Stinging nettles bristle upward, filling the open spaces with their bitter green. Above them are elder-bushes, twisted and splitting, smelling of dust and age. A tall spruce rises into a green gloom. Its pendulous branches seem to hang down into deep water. They are the colour of water-weed. Satanic ivy hides the bole of the tree, and I cannot see the summit.
 
 
The fog has gone, and the green headland of the hill rises above the blue glitter of the distant sea. Long thorn hedges, crowned with oak and ask, divide the hill into many narrow, undrained fields. Lines of small elms mount the steep slopes, their dark summer green looking almost black. Between the wood and the hill, there is the shallow valley of a small, winding stream, dark with alder, then silvery with sharp-leaved willow. The unchecked growth of many summers, rising and declining, has lessened the penetration of the light in a way one rarely sees in farmland now. The hazed-over raggedness of sky above these lush, neglected fields gives a sense of mystery, of something rare and wild that has run away to hide, of something infinitely regretful fretting at the edge of the light, like a big moth fumbling at a window. This is a place where the last of the persecuted may for a time find refuge and seclusion. In the amber of the sunlight that lies between the high hedges, there is preserved an air of the past, the presence of an older summer. Under the surface of the visible world I can always hear the soft wolf-stride of the rapacious world beyond.
 
 
I leave the wood, and go down towards the stream. The fog lingers in the hedges, and in the tops of the trees, but there is blue sky above and a haze of sunlight. A covey of common partridges whirrs away over the drying grass, beating their wings quickly and then gliding. As they glide they force their wings down in hard, drooping curves, as though they were holding buoyant pieces of wood under water. Their primary feathers seem to curve involuntarily, like curls of burning paper. Dragonflies glisten in the misty light. The traveller’s joy shines over the hedges with the glint of thistledown. The bruised hemlock has a high and lonely look. A grass snake lies coiled in the sun, close to a hedge. It makes a sudden green scribble over the dead leaves, and then a dry rustling, as it slithers from sight beneath the overhanging brambles.
Two bullfinches are calling in the quivering moonlight of a white poplar. Their muted voices are plaintive, receding, muffled swiftly into silence by the soft white fur of the trembling leaves. They sound like question and answer, or questions expecting no answer. First the clear, delicate, fluting whistle of the female, a single sweet note, very pure and deep: then the male’s rippling response, two notes, a cadence, husky and slurring, yet jaunty, like the soft accents of a forgotten dialect. The bullfinches are subdued, secretive, deep in their own distance, mellowed by the sighing of the leaves.
 
 
I cross the stream, and ascend the arc of the hill. The dull green hedges are flushed with red: the vermilion of the rose-hips, the dark crimson of the haws, the orange-red arum berries under the ragged elms. A pond is hidden by clumps of leaning willow-herb. The oxidising dock and sorrel seeds stain the grass with dark brown rust. Scarlet pimpernel sleeps among stonecrop, shadowed by the warrior thistles. The aromatic white air of the chamomile and mayweed is darkened by swarms of flies. The fences and stiles have been hidden and crushed down by the insurrection of the weeds.
Woodpigeons sing in the dark shadow of the elms. A party of tits and tree creepers is travelling through the hedge, searching the leaves and the bark for food. Crane flies trail up from the fibrous grass. Starlings and swallows circle in the misty sky, feeding upon the insects that are rising into the dank warmth above the fields.
This hill is like the rich, impossible land that was depicted in the bird-books I saw as a child. The smell of the past rose from those musty pages, like the smell of forgotten hay. Men stood in their stiff-looking elderly clothes, their swart, hairy faces suffused with the summer sun. Dragonflies coloured the swaying marshes; the kite, the raven, the buzzard, shone above; the wide hayfields paled to the skyline; the high woods murmured beneath their beckoning trees. I saw the clean rivers, the forests like comforting fur, the silent sky. Guns fired, but there was no sound; birds fell, but there was no blood. It was a country of unchanging summer peace, a place I could never find.
 
 
I have reached the top of the hill. The sea rises to the south, sparkling with green and silver light, ascending into a mist of blue. The land shines clear and wet. Far below, the long wind-rows of the late summer hay are whitening in the sun. The south wind brings the scent of hay to the hill. The heat-haze quivers upward, like the filmy wings of a dragonfly emerging from their larval darkness. The fields have a leisured look, cattle-slow, swallow-enchanted.
The rusty call of a green woodpecker, sounding hoarse and unpractised, rises from the line of dark elms, whose crowns are just visible above the steep downward curve of the hill. High over the sea-plain, swallows and martins dive deep into the hazy pool of the air. A few late swifts circle above them. Grasshoppers sing in the withered fields. Butterflies hover above the thistles and the ragwort, haunting the bright air. Linnets and goldfinches cling to the bending thistle-flowers, scattering the white down as they pick out the seeds. Skylarks flutter from the grass, rising quickly and then slowly subsiding, as though bewildered by their lack of song.
The wind is rising in the tall black Italian poplars that tower above the hedge behind me. I can hear the wet rustling of their leaves. Weirs of air pour through them, and their endless water-tremble is a cooling sound. The glossy grey-green leaves shimmer in the sunlight like rain drifting through the sound of rain. Light flickers over the trees as the leaves turn on their thin and flattened stalks and flutter against one another. Poplars breathe the wind, and then slowly exhale it. A gust enters a tree, rushing into the lyre-shaped filter of the leaves. Then it moves slowly through to the far side in a long sighing of departure, till it is released to fade and tremble out across the fields. When the wind rises, the leaves surge like the roar of pebbles dragged down by the receding of a wave, and the branches strain upward as though the whole tree were about to take flight.
Rabbits feed in the grass above the brambled darkness of their burrows. The subdued song of a willow warbler flutters softly in the hedge. Something white moves low and wavering across the fields at the foot of the hill. Slowly, steadily, smoothly, like a globe of snow-white thistledown rising and falling in the wind, it sweeps over the bleached hayfields and the sudden gleam of a lane. Through the binoculars I can see that it is a hunting barn owl. Its wings beat evenly, without haste or effort, but the apparent ease is deceptive. It swerves and hesitates like a white lapwing. The sunlit haze seems to impede its movement. At such a distance it looks entirely white, luminous, without stain. It seems to fly slowly, but in fact it is flying faster than the swallows, as fast as a hunting hawk. It moves with infinite leisure through the flat world below, strangely unreal. From here, it looks conspicuous. But down there, as it passes over the lane, it must be merely a phantom whiteness, a breath vanishing at once from the shining mirror of the heat.
 
 
I lie on the hill of grass, letting the idle day flow down towards the west. The domed mole-barrows rise against the blue. The high air becomes purer, lonelier, as the wind moves through the grass and the travelling poplars strive. A kestrel soars, revolving the sky through the vanes of his wings. Swallows are fluting the air with the dark blue vapour of their flight. It is an effort to descend down the hand-holds of memory to the plain beneath, to recall the lost future, the dusk hovering above the sunken cities, the dim western world of fallen light and broken skies. My life is here, where soon the larks will sing again, and there is a hawk above. One wishes only to go forward, deeper into the summer land, journeying from lark-song to lark-song, passing through the dark realm of the owls, the fox-holdings, the badger-shires, out into the brilliant winter dominion, the sea-bleak world of the hawks. Something lingers in the air above the east country, a dust that never settles, a mist that no illumination can disperse. It is like the sea shining down from the sky.
 
 
The afternoon light declines, and the west becomes a dazzling sunlit haze, in which colour and distance slowly disappear. Idly, inattentively, I scan the undulating surface of the wood, letting the waving branches flow swiftly through the lens of the telescope. Suddenly, barbed in the moss-green plumes of the spruce, a sparrowhawk is perching, an adult male. He rests in the sun, loose-feathered, dishevelled, like an opening fir cone. By the magnification of the telescope, the hawk is lifted from distance, hallowed in an orbital ring of frosty light. He rises from the wood, huge and heraldic, like a phoenix from green flame. The yellow stems of his legs seem to be rooted in the rough bark of the tree. He looks primitive, archaic, more remote from man than a falcon. The sparrowhawk is uncompromisingly alien. It seems to have a vegetable existence, the barbarism of the sundew, as though a carnivorous plant had taken flight. The golden eyes are shallow, a raging surface, like a storm-driven haze of Magellanic water.
Below the perching bird, ten feet from the top of the tree, hidden from the ground beneath by the dense branches and the overhanging ivy, there is an untidy crown of twigs, the nest of a sparrowhawk. It is empty now, but the twigs are still white with the droppings and down-feathers of the young birds that have flown. I can imagine their sharp-edged hunger-calls rising into the hot summer sky, yellow-beaked flames of sound burning up into the cold light of the sea from the snowy nest in the dark spruce.
The hawk has left the tree. Flicking his wings lightly till they shine like birch-twigs in winter, he descends to the slope of the hill. The glide begins, the blurred wings spreading out upon the surface as though upon water, as though the air had suddenly begun to flow forward like water, bearing away the winged seed of the prone hawk. The rushing torrent tilts between trees, along hedges, down the steep hillside. The grey-brown tail of the hawk extends, fanning open and shut, streaming out gaseously like the tail of a comet. The green land swims back into the brilliant crater of the hawk’s luminous sun-gold eye, the retina rippling with images, reflecting trees, hedges, grass, and the flicker of sudden birds. It is motion, endless motion, smooth-flowing; an imperceptible movement, a haze of blurred wing-beats; then the flow resuming. The grass glides back beneath with a faint susurrus, leaves stir, twigs wave in the wind. There is a rapid burr of quills stiffening and fanning open as the hawk turns abruptly, swings up, then lowers to the surface of his glide again. All is flux, passing away, the soft breath of the hawk’s flight cool on the tall grass, the still thistles, the swaying nettle-towers whose green dust stays undisturbed. The air is fanned aside, the whole land is in motion, planes of earth and sky tilting away from the travelling grey wings of the pilgrim hawk. It is like a beating of bounds, grey lines drawn and expunged by the map-making bird as he contours the sunlit hillside with smooth unwavering flight.
The human eye moves with the hawk, swinging easily over the surface of the hill. Then it is alone. He has swerved aside. The eye has to go back, darts back to the hunting hawk. The haggard foot plucks idly at a singing robin; the robin falls, survives; the hawk drifts on, unregarding. Starlings dash up from the fields, and are passed, and forgotten. A startled rabbit runs down through the grass, leaving a dark green furrow with shining edges. The fanatically tireless flight of the hawk is like a wind of mortality, but it seems to lack purpose. It is merely a pondering of possible prey, monkish, dream-like, a contemplation of killing.
The hawk traverses the hill, sweeping low, rising, pausing, gliding away; but always he seems to descend, to go down into deeper and deeper green, endlessly falling through the slow summer air. And summer flows back through the flight of the hawk, the season unreeling, the splendour returning. And these things glow in the wake of his flight: thrushes eating haws in the hedge; magpies half-hidden by grass; moorhens running back to a pond; purple wine-streams of swallows over white clouds of hogweed; partridges whirling away; a shimmer of blue tits in the leaves of an aspen; a tree creeper sliding smoothly under the bough of an elm; a singing yellowhammer suddenly silent; a wren dropping down into brambles; sparrows and lapwings rising from the hayfields far below. Over the sea-bed of the late summer hay, the gliding hawk withdraws, till the eye loses him at last, and he sinks in the grey of the sea.
 
 
The grasshoppers no longer sing, and there are fewer insects in the cooling air. The sky to the east is very clear and blue. It has a cold, uninhabited look. Many rabbits are feeding in the shadows that now reach half-way across the fields. Woodpigeons are already flying to roost. Their soft cooing rises from the heavy elms and the subsiding wood. The swallows fly faster, flashing dark between the hedges. The leaves of the poplars move gently, idly, like the sea at low tide. The singing of the robins is unbearably clear and poignant. The hill shines with an elegiac autumn light.
A tawny owl calls from the bridle-path, and the shrill sound of mobbing begins. Blackbirds, thrushes, chaffinches, and sparrows, chatter and scold in a rising helix of hysterical clamour. The owl floats upward, rising buoyantly from the submerged green twilight of the trees. He glides down to the farm, glowing chestnut-red in the dark shadows. He rises to perch on the roof of the barn, and is changed by the late sun to a gable of fire, flaming on blue, cooling to stillness, the earth drifting down beneath him. His eyes close. He seems to be sleeping. Then he has gone, suddenly and completely, as though absorbed by the light. The sun lifts from the tops of the trees, from the roof of the barn. The hill sinks down, and the farm is in shadow. I hear the far call of the owl, very far now, far down in the dark valley.
The penumbra of dusk moves slowly westward. The owls of Europe are already hunting. The zoo owls will be waking now as the light declines and the grey Victorian brickwork glows with evening gold. Trees drift in the wind above the roar of traffic in the road outside. White mice lie dead on the floor of the cage. The eagle owl will not feed till dusk. He is waking as the people watch him, stretching his neck and uttering a soft call. His sunset-coloured eyes are kindling, the light coming slowly forward from within. The owl looks outward, beyond the watching faces. They have no significance for him. He is waking to his own world, to glooms of spruce or desert rock. He does not see the dull metallic chains that fence us in. His mind is still unscalable, a crag from which he can look down at the captives gazing up at him.
 
 
Here on the hill the day is almost over. The light flows down to the west, and the grey sea rises. The air is autumnal now. It smells of dusk. The sparrowhawk flits low beside the hedge, and is suddenly still upon a dead oak, growing to greyness. His yellow eyes look small and hard, like the sun shining behind mica. They seem to scorch my skin, as though the sun’s rays were focusing to fire through a burning-glass. His pale red chest is barred with white. It is like a red heart shining between white ribs, like the setting sun that gleams on the blue thorn of his bill and the yellow scales of his scourging feet. His cruelty – if it exists – is something given, like an eye or a voice. It does not grow – as it does in man – like a cancer of the spirit. He has no hiding-place. His refuge is in flight, in his own shadow. He lives in action; there is no before and after. The love of man can never spoil his will. His mind filters the landscape for movement, for shape; it reflects the rest. When I saw him first, at the top of the tall spruce, he was idle, calm in the night of his sleep. His long flight to the sea was like a moonlit meditation. But now the sun of his hunting rage is slowly rising into the last flame and clarity of day. His eyes glare round, darkening to the colour of fire. They leap. His wings follow. He is flying. He sinks to the west, moving fast and low. His shadow runs upon the earth beneath him. He courses along the misty hedges. He draws his precise grey lines across the summer land. Like a dark ray, he strikes into the sunlit straw of the barn. Sparrows break into brown clouds. A feeding pheasant calls, lifts his jewelled head, then crouches low. The hawk sweeps over the lane, slashes through the hedges, glides over farms, between bushes, round stables; then glints away over yellow stubble. His reflection flickers through dark farm ponds. He bisects a wood, but does not pause. He flows. He is a blade of a shadow, a bloom of soft grey light. He does not attack. For the moment he seems content merely to moving, receding, always receding, before he can be known.
 
 
A flock of lapwings flies above the hill, circles to the south, and then descends, the birds falling slowly to the hayfield, rocking and swaying through the air, running forward and calling as they land. Magpies chatter in the elms, where some woodpigeons are still singing. One swallow remains, hunting over the steep grass. There is no wind now, and the poplars sound very far-off. A faint scent of honeysuckle wanders from the hedge. The spear thistles are assuming the stillness of night. The grass is wet with dew.
 
 
There is a sudden haunting whiteness to the south. It seems to hover on the shining surface of the sea. Then it descends, and comes closer. It is a barn owl. He glows in the last sunlight, like burning snow, a white incandescence casting a black shadow. He flies quickly through the cooling dusk of the fields, and his whiteness is strangely difficult to follow. Some of his owl-shape seems to ebb away into the ambient air. He turns in the darkness of an oak, and floats forward over the fading giraffe-skins of light and shade that still dapple the sunlit field. Over the wet grass, through the thorns of shadow, the owl advances, his wings waving softly in the damp green dusk. He flies a yard above the grass: ten high wing-beats and then a drowsy glide. His flight is fast and even, yet every wing-beat jolts him slightly, making his body rise and fall in a smooth undulation. The edges of his wings are constantly feeling the air. Their silky fringes, like antennae of thistledown, impose a white silence in which all sounds are magnified. The glides are sudden and brief, slow-moving, with the long white wings held upward and changing shape, like listening ears. The broad head looks down, hanging like the globe of a giant puff-ball below the moth-like fanning of the wings. The soft ear-coverts lift in a wind of sound, and the cavernous ears beneath them echo with the endless rustling of the running mice. The white facial disc of the barn owl is a corolla of shining feathers, a radiance of petals that beams the diminishing light down to the dark-channelled calyces of the owl’s huge Lebanon eyes.
Suddenly he looks up, scanning my dark shape with bland indifference. Under the pale sunset glow that shines beyond the stained-glass sky of the hawthorns, the owl has the face of a saint. A mouse squeaks, a frail bud of sound, deep in the long grass. The owl stops abruptly, wheeling aside, like a white cloth flicked across my eyes. He thumps down, and the grass swirls open beneath his spreading wings. The mouse is dead. The owl stays in the grass for a moment. I can see the crown of his head, gleaming white, dusted with golden-brown. He rises heavily, carrying his prey, and flies to the west. He is black against the sunset, then grey, then gone. The dead mouse droops in the slack of his skin, and drags against the air.
 
 
Summer is fading now, into the mist of the fields, into the steep dusk of the valley. The voices of departing birds circle in the bright zenith of the after-sunset sky. Later, in the still night, under the rising of the winter stars, the voices of birds arriving will drift down to the tremble of the star-lit shore, tired from the long dark north of their journey.
A magpie mutters in the elms, but the robins and woodpigeons are silent. The scolding blackbirds fly to roost, and the stillness deepens. The last gleam of sunset lifts upwards from the sea. The air is suddenly colder. The song of a tawny owl rings out from far below, down in the damp autumn of the valley, and its smouldering moonlight burns through the dark trees.
The heavy shape of the tawny owl rests lightly at the top of a dead ash. The indigo dusk of his grey world is now the dusk of the fields. He sees the shrouded eyes of the roosting birds as they watch him from the hedge. For him the earth is a glittering firmament, but the sky above is shadowed. The pale fore-feet of a mouse reach up to a blade of grass, like a flutter of praying hands. The muted wings of the owl plane out on to the surface of the dusk, passing palms of darkness over the late sky. He floats through a labyrinth of air from which all sounds have fled. Swathed in black silence, he suddenly falls, extinguishing the faint spark of a strangled cry, killing the voice before the dying face is seen.
 
 
The hill reposes in a stratum of deep silence. The light of the sea beats in with a brightness of pale wings. The poplars are still. The smooth leaves of the silverweed glisten. Tall spear thistles stand in the hay-light of the fields, towering like desert cacti above their diminishing shadows. A weasel’s dark eyes glitter in the hedge, like small elderberries. The rose-hips have a fading sunset glow. The striped face of a badger shines in the path to the wood, then vanishes. The paths have no ending now. They seem to go on beyond the wood, across the misty plain, to find fulfilment in the distant sky, where dusk is bright upon the flying hills.
The darkness is returning from the sea to the mysterious, unloved lands of the east and the wood has a waiting look. I step softly through the reeds of silence. A fox glides past, a febrile warmth in the cold flow of the field. The wings of a mallard fret among the stars. Bats flutter their dumb language above the dark trees. A partridge calls. The slow dusk of the farm moves in the respiration of the sea. A curlew’s voice curves up into the night. The cowled hayricks glimmer, and grow large. The ferny darkness has a feral breath, but the visionary white owl shines again in the fronds of the air.
The forgotten path is hidden beneath grass and campion and cow parsley. Above it, the hawthorn is warm with the white ash of its blossom. The song of the greenfinches is as slow and sleepy as the languid air, as the warm southern breeze. A cuckoo calls endlessly in the distance, a soft-echoing voice that faces and returns but comes no nearer. These sounds deepen the quiet haze of the may.
Under the splinters of the numbed hedge, a whitethroat sings. He creeps among the nettles, furtive, wandering, seen here and there like glimpses of a pouring snake, making the red campion flowers nod and quiver. He will be here throughout the summer, feeding, nesting, singing above his meagre territory, glad of the growth to come, this ragged remnant of a hedge.
The small woods of the upland plain, where sparrowhawks once nested, are a brown mist in the summer heat of the still afternoon. The white blossom of an orchard has risen in slow flight. It hovers low in the shimmering haze. I sit on a fallen tree at the edge of a pine wood. Many birds are singing in the clearings. Between the trees, the bluebells are like a film of lilac smoke that has no definite outline. The scent is much sharper and more palpable than the drifting colour. A garden warbler flies into a tree above. His whole body shakes with song. His throat leaps and flutters with the strangeness of it, the syrinx inhabited by an inexplicable joy of music. The feathers of the bird’s throat and nape part in dark rippling lines. The song flows on, with only brief pauses. The colour of the bluebells intensifies, the thick scent droning with a sleep of bees.
The pine wood is motionless, withdrawn. The vibrating wings of a bee stir the dry leaves and twigs beside the log. A faint breeze-lifted trail of sawdust whirls up and slowly sinks again as the bee drones higher and spirals away. Then nothing moves in the windless air. The brown mist of the distant woods is slowly becoming sky. The curved heads of the lost sparrowhawks seem to ascend from the horizon’s dusky haze. Their harsh calls ring again in the heat and the silence.
 
 
Fear grew like a fungus upon the green surface of the woodland air. The violent flight of the sparrowhawk throbbed through the nerves of the dark rides. The hawk was fugitive, wild, a creature of shadow, doomed, dim with the power of death. It was distance, mystery, hope, the hidden heart of fire from which the green leaves burned and fluttered. The violence was hidden, transmuted into threat, into the clouds of uneasy birds rising like smoke over the bright clearings. The hawks themselves were seldom seen. I found the nebulous ring of blowing feathers or glimpsed a grey thistledown of wings drifting through a sky of leaves. The hawks only became real when they hung dead from the gamekeeper’s gallows tree, the wild spirits transfixed into solidity at last.
To be in these woods then was to be in a beyond world. Towns and people had no meaning. They were shut out by the horizon, by the shining rim of the trees. The distance that separated me from them was like a slope too steep ever to be scaled again. I could only go forward, treading stealthily through the mossy gloom of the summered rides, lost in the dusty smell of the hot leaves. The sense of violence was muted, dimmed, yet it was always there, breathing upon the stillness. Then would come the minatory crash of the gamekeeper’s gun, the sound threshing away, echoing from wood to wood. And then the soft whisper of flying wings, the grey wraith passing swiftly down the dark ride, the hawk seen close yet never really seen, the presence abiding when the bird had gone, hanging in the green air like a mist, palpable as the smell of a fox yet never condensing to any certain shape.
Against every sky, I saw then the curved and inflexible line of a hawk’s bill; the lack of a face; the glittering opacity of an eye that had the glare of the sea, intense and implacable, with something shining beyond. It was as though the body of the hawk were merely a larval stage, the feathery integument of some unknown creature of the trees.
The hawks were already pursuing before they could see their prey. They flew fast and low across fields, along hedges, down woodland rides; they twisted nimbly between trees. Small birds bathing in water or in dust, or singing from a twig, or feeding away from cover, were startled into flight and were snatched suddenly from life. Sometimes they waited in ambush, or pounced downward from a height, but most of their hunting was an endless silent rushing towards something they had not yet seen. The adult male was more grey than brown, with bars of rust across a whitish chest, but in flight he could look as brown as the female. One saw these birds so briefly, and in such gloomy light. The yellow iris might gleam momentarily, the long yellow legs might flash and snap across the dark, piny air: the rest was a wild blur, a huskiness of wings trembling down through the wood, like brown water receding into haze.
Sparrowhawks hide in the dusk; in the dusk of great speed, in evening dusk, in the dusk of height and distance. They are the unseen, who come so close – till the eye touches them – then they are gone, leaving the air vibrant with their passing. Each summer I searched for their nests. I followed them from wood to wood, finding their kills, finding their bodies dangling from dark boughs, like Saxon poachers turning in the wind.
Again the crash of the keeper’s gun, nearer now, and the sound of feet approaching. Hidden deep in bracken, I would watch him go by. I never saw his face. I saw only the glint of the gun-barrel, the dead birds swinging from an unseen hand, the stained boots swishing through the grass of the ride.
 
 
Clouds deepen over the shining sky. A faint breeze comes from the south and moves the leaves of the taller trees. There is a premonitory murmur of distant thunder. The pine wood is warm and dark. The narrow columns of air between the small close-growing pines are spiced with a smell of resin. It is a strange air. There is a hovering in it, like warm breath. The woodland floor is soft with decaying twigs and pine needles the colour of dead grass. It seems porous, as though it were a lung of the earth beneath. Rabbits live here. They are feeding in the grass of the ride that shines beyond the deep pine shadow where I stand. Their ears twitch to the volcanic growl of the thunder that is nearer now and more full-throated. A hare passes close to me, unsuspecting. The sunlit edges of the northern clouds float in the liquid miniature of his eye. He bears their brightness into the shadows of the wood.
The sky darkens till it is duller than the dense blue-grey of the pine needles. The narrow boles of the trees, and their lower branches, are a purplish fawn colour, goose-fleshed and hard, like dead bark beneath a living canopy. I walk deeper into the wood, and lose my way. All is symmetrical, equally spaced, the same. There is no sky now, but at the perimeter of the wood, at the end of every line of trees, bright ovals of sky-lit country glow like fires in the mouths of caves. A few stunted birches grow between the pines, their silver scales moving before me, like a stir of fins in dark water. The fallen pine needles have their own faint shine, which the clouds cannot dim. There is no pine-smell at the centre of the wood. It was gradually lost as I walked inwards. Thunder crashes above, and slowly the rain begins. I stumble towards the last light of the north. The wood fills with the sound of rain. The air is colder, driven down by the storm. Lightning darts and flickers, like a white deer leaping between the trees. The pine boles are bleached to a dazzling whiteness that bruises to purple as the gloom returns. The thunder booms. Dense thickets of rain grow between the trees, grey and impenetrable. Beyond the wood, there is a cold smell of drenched grass and fallen bluebells; within, a warm smell of bark and leaf-mould. A garden warbler sings in the caves of darkness under the misty birches, sings endlessly over the arches of bramble. Through the hiss and roar of the rain that bows the trees, the bird pours out the pure breath of his song. It flows unbrokenly, loud and mellow and far-echoing. He sings in the shining green bubble of his own world. The whole wood is an exultant respiration of storm-driven wind and rain. It is like being inside the hollow bones of an immense bird, listening to the sudden inrush of the air and the measured heart-beat of huge wings.
A robin comes into deeper cover, and sings above my head. Bullfinches call. The bird-song has not ceased since the storm began. A willow warbler sings among the rain-quivered leaves of a sycamore sapling at the wood’s edge, where the light is gathering slowly like a pool of rainwater. The willow warbler’s tail fans out and closes against the light as he flits from twig to twig, searching for insects. He sings as he feeds, and his peering eye is like a pine-darkened rain-drop. Very far off, a turtle dove is cooing. Each pine needle is beaded with silver rain. The blue-green colour of the trees is concealed by webs of shining crystal. Slowly the light increases, but the rain falls steadily for half an hour more. The thunder comes from the north now, and the occasional blink of lightning no longer stains the retina with a tree of green veins. The light increases like the imminence of sunrise. Rabbits still feed in the sodden ride, crouched deep in the steaming grass, their fur dark and felted with the rain. A final cannonade of thunder reverberates through the wet air.
 
 
I look to the north, across the crushed bluebells of the clearing. The light, which had steadily increased as the skylarks rose again behind the passing storm, is now slowly changing. It thickens into a mist, a dim mysterious vapour that becomes a silvery fog in which the distant trees loom large and indistinct, the poplars shaped like firs. Water streams down the mossy stems of the trees. The pine needles glitter with innumerable small reflected suns. The pines have their own rain now, but in the open the rain has ceased and the sun shines coldly. Blackcaps and garden warblers sing, as they have always done, though now the song is no longer enhanced by the rain. The bluebells have a sharper scent, less cloying, cold and piercing like the water of a spring. The distant woods, which rose into heat-haze only an hour ago, are gathered away into the mist. They are autumnal, of the dusk, although the sun still shines. The woodland day is over. A tawny owl calls among the pines, where the rainy night has already begun.
The forgotten path is hidden beneath grass and campion and cow parsley. Above it, the hawthorn is warm with the white ash of its blossom. The song of the greenfinches is as slow and sleepy as the languid air, as the warm southern breeze. A cuckoo calls endlessly in the distance, a soft-echoing voice that faces and returns but comes no nearer. These sounds deepen the quiet haze of the may.
Under the splinters of the numbed hedge, a whitethroat sings. He creeps among the nettles, furtive, wandering, seen here and there like glimpses of a pouring snake, making the red campion flowers nod and quiver. He will be here throughout the summer, feeding, nesting, singing above his meagre territory, glad of the growth to come, this ragged remnant of a hedge.
The small woods of the upland plain, where sparrowhawks once nested, are a brown mist in the summer heat of the still afternoon. The white blossom of an orchard has risen in slow flight. It hovers low in the shimmering haze. I sit on a fallen tree at the edge of a pine wood. Many birds are singing in the clearings. Between the trees, the bluebells are like a film of lilac smoke that has no definite outline. The scent is much sharper and more palpable than the drifting colour. A garden warbler flies into a tree above. His whole body shakes with song. His throat leaps and flutters with the strangeness of it, the syrinx inhabited by an inexplicable joy of music. The feathers of the bird’s throat and nape part in dark rippling lines. The song flows on, with only brief pauses. The colour of the bluebells intensifies, the thick scent droning with a sleep of bees.
The pine wood is motionless, withdrawn. The vibrating wings of a bee stir the dry leaves and twigs beside the log. A faint breeze-lifted trail of sawdust whirls up and slowly sinks again as the bee drones higher and spirals away. Then nothing moves in the windless air. The brown mist of the distant woods is slowly becoming sky. The curved heads of the lost sparrowhawks seem to ascend from the horizon’s dusky haze. Their harsh calls ring again in the heat and the silence.
 
 
Fear grew like a fungus upon the green surface of the woodland air. The violent flight of the sparrowhawk throbbed through the nerves of the dark rides. The hawk was fugitive, wild, a creature of shadow, doomed, dim with the power of death. It was distance, mystery, hope, the hidden heart of fire from which the green leaves burned and fluttered. The violence was hidden, transmuted into threat, into the clouds of uneasy birds rising like smoke over the bright clearings. The hawks themselves were seldom seen. I found the nebulous ring of blowing feathers or glimpsed a grey thistledown of wings drifting through a sky of leaves. The hawks only became real when they hung dead from the gamekeeper’s gallows tree, the wild spirits transfixed into solidity at last.
To be in these woods then was to be in a beyond world. Towns and people had no meaning. They were shut out by the horizon, by the shining rim of the trees. The distance that separated me from them was like a slope too steep ever to be scaled again. I could only go forward, treading stealthily through the mossy gloom of the summered rides, lost in the dusty smell of the hot leaves. The sense of violence was muted, dimmed, yet it was always there, breathing upon the stillness. Then would come the minatory crash of the gamekeeper’s gun, the sound threshing away, echoing from wood to wood. And then the soft whisper of flying wings, the grey wraith passing swiftly down the dark ride, the hawk seen close yet never really seen, the presence abiding when the bird had gone, hanging in the green air like a mist, palpable as the smell of a fox yet never condensing to any certain shape.
Against every sky, I saw then the curved and inflexible line of a hawk’s bill; the lack of a face; the glittering opacity of an eye that had the glare of the sea, intense and implacable, with something shining beyond. It was as though the body of the hawk were merely a larval stage, the feathery integument of some unknown creature of the trees.
The hawks were already pursuing before they could see their prey. They flew fast and low across fields, along hedges, down woodland rides; they twisted nimbly between trees. Small birds bathing in water or in dust, or singing from a twig, or feeding away from cover, were startled into flight and were snatched suddenly from life. Sometimes they waited in ambush, or pounced downward from a height, but most of their hunting was an endless silent rushing towards something they had not yet seen. The adult male was more grey than brown, with bars of rust across a whitish chest, but in flight he could look as brown as the female. One saw these birds so briefly, and in such gloomy light. The yellow iris might gleam momentarily, the long yellow legs might flash and snap across the dark, piny air: the rest was a wild blur, a huskiness of wings trembling down through the wood, like brown water receding into haze.
Sparrowhawks hide in the dusk; in the dusk of great speed, in evening dusk, in the dusk of height and distance. They are the unseen, who come so close – till the eye touches them – then they are gone, leaving the air vibrant with their passing. Each summer I searched for their nests. I followed them from wood to wood, finding their kills, finding their bodies dangling from dark boughs, like Saxon poachers turning in the wind.
Again the crash of the keeper’s gun, nearer now, and the sound of feet approaching. Hidden deep in bracken, I would watch him go by. I never saw his face. I saw only the glint of the gun-barrel, the dead birds swinging from an unseen hand, the stained boots swishing through the grass of the ride.
 
 
Clouds deepen over the shining sky. A faint breeze comes from the south and moves the leaves of the taller trees. There is a premonitory murmur of distant thunder. The pine wood is warm and dark. The narrow columns of air between the small close-growing pines are spiced with a smell of resin. It is a strange air. There is a hovering in it, like warm breath. The woodland floor is soft with decaying twigs and pine needles the colour of dead grass. It seems porous, as though it were a lung of the earth beneath. Rabbits live here. They are feeding in the grass of the ride that shines beyond the deep pine shadow where I stand. Their ears twitch to the volcanic growl of the thunder that is nearer now and more full-throated. A hare passes close to me, unsuspecting. The sunlit edges of the northern clouds float in the liquid miniature of his eye. He bears their brightness into the shadows of the wood.
The sky darkens till it is duller than the dense blue-grey of the pine needles. The narrow boles of the trees, and their lower branches, are a purplish fawn colour, goose-fleshed and hard, like dead bark beneath a living canopy. I walk deeper into the wood, and lose my way. All is symmetrical, equally spaced, the same. There is no sky now, but at the perimeter of the wood, at the end of every line of trees, bright ovals of sky-lit country glow like fires in the mouths of caves. A few stunted birches grow between the pines, their silver scales moving before me, like a stir of fins in dark water. The fallen pine needles have their own faint shine, which the clouds cannot dim. There is no pine-smell at the centre of the wood. It was gradually lost as I walked inwards. Thunder crashes above, and slowly the rain begins. I stumble towards the last light of the north. The wood fills with the sound of rain. The air is colder, driven down by the storm. Lightning darts and flickers, like a white deer leaping between the trees. The pine boles are bleached to a dazzling whiteness that bruises to purple as the gloom returns. The thunder booms. Dense thickets of rain grow between the trees, grey and impenetrable. Beyond the wood, there is a cold smell of drenched grass and fallen bluebells; within, a warm smell of bark and leaf-mould. A garden warbler sings in the caves of darkness under the misty birches, sings endlessly over the arches of bramble. Through the hiss and roar of the rain that bows the trees, the bird pours out the pure breath of his song. It flows unbrokenly, loud and mellow and far-echoing. He sings in the shining green bubble of his own world. The whole wood is an exultant respiration of storm-driven wind and rain. It is like being inside the hollow bones of an immense bird, listening to the sudden inrush of the air and the measured heart-beat of huge wings.
A robin comes into deeper cover, and sings above my head. Bullfinches call. The bird-song has not ceased since the storm began. A willow warbler sings among the rain-quivered leaves of a sycamore sapling at the wood’s edge, where the light is gathering slowly like a pool of rainwater. The willow warbler’s tail fans out and closes against the light as he flits from twig to twig, searching for insects. He sings as he feeds, and his peering eye is like a pine-darkened rain-drop. Very far off, a turtle dove is cooing. Each pine needle is beaded with silver rain. The blue-green colour of the trees is concealed by webs of shining crystal. Slowly the light increases, but the rain falls steadily for half an hour more. The thunder comes from the north now, and the occasional blink of lightning no longer stains the retina with a tree of green veins. The light increases like the imminence of sunrise. Rabbits still feed in the sodden ride, crouched deep in the steaming grass, their fur dark and felted with the rain. A final cannonade of thunder reverberates through the wet air.
 
 
I look to the north, across the crushed bluebells of the clearing. The light, which had steadily increased as the skylarks rose again behind the passing storm, is now slowly changing. It thickens into a mist, a dim mysterious vapour that becomes a silvery fog in which the distant trees loom large and indistinct, the poplars shaped like firs. Water streams down the mossy stems of the trees. The pine needles glitter with innumerable small reflected suns. The pines have their own rain now, but in the open the rain has ceased and the sun shines coldly. Blackcaps and garden warblers sing, as they have always done, though now the song is no longer enhanced by the rain. The bluebells have a sharper scent, less cloying, cold and piercing like the water of a spring. The distant woods, which rose into heat-haze only an hour ago, are gathered away into the mist. They are autumnal, of the dusk, although the sun still shines. The woodland day is over. A tawny owl calls among the pines, where the rainy night has already begun.

The pine wood hides the sun, like a dark northern god rising in menace above the white road that falls steeply to the west, and the small green hills beyond are receding into a grey autumnal haze. The high town silvers in sunlight, and its sky is barbed with curving swifts. But already the night’s simplicity is settling upon the valley. Under the exotic flowering of the early lights, a blue Venetian dusk laps at the windows of the shadowed houses. As I watch, the high town is extinguished, and its shining sky ascends. The stiff-feathered pines shed their darkness into the still air.
A twilight of luminous birches glimmers upon the blackness of the pines. I sink into the mossy summer-woodland smell of the birch leaves. It is a sweet herbivorous breath, like the smell of rain drying away from the hot road. It rises from the wood like a corona of green mist. It is a cave that leads into another world; the subterranean, removed world of the summer night.
A dead mole lies on its back in the path, as though it had fallen from the sky. It is solid and heavy, but the pouchy fur is as soft as the skin of a peach. Its slack feet seem to crumple the air, like small white hands. Its jaws have sagged apart, and a red gape shows between. The teeth are pointed and sharp. There is no pathos in this predatory face. The mouth is held open as though the mole were panting. It is vivid and startling, like an inexplicable splash of blood.
A cuckoo calls, deep in the western silence. The rutted path curves down between dense plantations of fifteen-foot pines. My sense of direction is lost at once. A few tall and dying oaks stand high above the conifers. Redpolls fly overhead, their dry trills rippling through the warm air. All around me the indigo pines are turning black. They have a stifling intensity, as though they were holding their breath. It is comforting to touch them, the cool needles brisk to the fingers, the resinous scent starry upon the hand. Darkness is drifting slowly down from the pine branches. The silence of its soft descent is almost audible. Very remote now, thrushes and robins are singing.
A strange roaring rises from the pines, heavy and gasping, spasmodic, like the bellowing of a bull. I cannot tell whether it is close or far off. It is a forlorn, curiously instrumental sound, half bovine, half human: the call of a red deer stag. The first three or four notes are drawn out, declamatory, each one a little longer and louder than the last, an inquisitorial challenging of the night air. There is a brief pause. This is followed by three or four short barking notes, declining and deepening, becoming shorter and softer. Then the call ceases abruptly, as though suddenly muffled by a hand. Four times, with prolonged, bristling pauses of expectancy between, the vibrant, husky roaring of the stag is repeated. It seems to rise up from the earth itself, like the snarling blast of a primitive trumpet, musty with the breath of decay. It is a pent-up, hostile savagery of sound released into the dusk in long horn-like curves, anguished and unfulfilled. When the last roar has faded, there is no other noise, no movement in the trees. I can imagine the stag’s head sinking down, bowed beneath its bush of antlers, listening for the soft terror of my tread.
 
 
I go deeper into the wood. Here the trees are scattered among open spaces of bracken. There is a faint swishing. Forty yards away, between two oaks, a red deer hind stands watching me. Her fawn colour shines, a pale glow against the grey of the trees and the green of the bracken. Her long neck looks taut and strained with fear. Her head is carefully poised, her large ears quiver, her dark muzzle is held high. She has a bewildered, unicorn sadness, beautiful, doomed, and mute. After several seconds’ gazing, she bounds heavily into cover, her back legs plunging and trembling away. As the crushed bracken straightens, a tree pipit sings for the last time before sunrise, floating down from the top of a pine.
There is a rustle of roosting birds in the pale cloud of the rhododendron thicket. The red blossom is black, but the white still shines. The song of a tawny owl quavers through the hollows of the air. The owl flies northward. I can follow its trail by listening to the scolding blackbirds. As the air cools, and darkens, the owl’s song seems to deepen, echoing through the temple of the night. It begins with a single declarative note, brief, tremulous, and loud. There is a long pause, an absolute silence in which no bird calls, as though all are waiting – as I am – for the rest of the song to follow. Then it comes, circling out into the imposed silence, thrilling among the trees like a glimmer of dark blue lightning. The scolding of the blackbirds ends quite suddenly; the go to roost, and the owl begins to hunt. The western light gleams faintly between the boles of the trees in narrow vertical strips of green and yellow, like blades of tall grass. But this grass light withers quickly down, as though devoured by fire, and all is grey.
 
 
Ten minutes after sunset, deep in the heavy-swirling dusk, I hear the hoarse bass croaking of a woodcock, followed at once by its shrill bat-like chirrup. The sound comes from the north. The woodcock flies overhead, fifty feet up, moving much faster than I expected, silhouetted against the sky. Its wing-beats are quick, and rather shallow; a steady winnowing, like the flight of a noctule bat. It is a blurred shape, and I cannot see its bill. It does not fly straight. Every twenty yards or so it veers on to a different course. It calls frequently; the five-syllabled croak and then the thin piping whistle. The croak has an odd, mechanical timbre. It is a wooden stridulation, very deep-throated and dryly rasping, as a grasshopper might sound if its song were artificially slowed down. The shrill squeaking, which follows without any pause at all, seems as though it must either be produced in a different manner or come from a different bird. It is a high sniggering that carries a great distance, so that I can hear it fading down into the valley, above the line of the stream, long after the preceding croak is quite inaudible.
Five minutes later, I again hear the woodcock approaching from the north. It calls several times before it appears, flying in the same direction, but not as fast. Through the binoculars I can see that its long bill is pointing forwards at an angle of thirty degrees below the horizontal. The croaking call is uttered without any visible opening of the bill; the mandibles are parted slightly for the high-pitched chirrup. At the first note of the croak, the woodcock’s wing-beat falters. The broad wings seem to stutter for a few seconds. The bird changes course, a bulky shape rapidly twisting and turning. This brief, staccato fumbling at the air is very quickly done and difficult to see. The owl-like wings seem to hang limp and still for a moment, then they flutter erratically before resuming their normal steady pulsation.
This curious display-flight, known as roding, continues for twenty minutes. The only sounds I can hear are the occasional calling of the woodcock, the whining of mosquitoes, and the creaking of a dead leaf or twig under the weight of a mouse. The upcurving branches of the young cactus-shaped pines are tapered with a candelabra of new shoots. Their bright lime-green colour burns white in the dusk. The dark sea of the wood is phosphorescent with their pale uplifted flames. I can smell the heavy pine-lit air and the drenched summer green of the bracken.
Two crows fly heavily through the wood. Their harsh night-calls echo among the trees. A hobby glides above, silent and secret as an owl, its wings shaped like small black sails. Its fencing, darting pursuit of moths and beetles is like the nightjar’s flight. Sails suddenly furling, it drops away among the dark trees, like a thrown sickle curving back to earth. Darkness rises in the wood and floats out into the surrounding fields. Only the paths still shine. Bats feel their way deftly across the face of the sky, falling and clinging. The hobby glides from the trees, wings pricking black against the faint light of the first stars. It chases a bat, a large shadow hooding a small one. I can see nothing more, but I hear the hollow reed-sound of the stoop, and feel the cold rushing of the air.
 
 
Very far off, so quietly that I cannot be certain whether or not I am really hearing it, the churring song of a nightjar seems to furrow the smooth surface of the silence. Forgetful of paths, I plunge into the implacable night of the pines, rushing towards that narrow stream of murmuring song that may at any moment dry away. Here and there I touch the luminosity of birch bark. Twigs snap beneath my feet, flick across my face. A mist of corn comes whitely towards me, gliding up between trees that drift apart. Suddenly I am at the edge of the wood. The corn is like a white fogbank rising in front of me. The nightjar’s song is closer now, but still a long way off. Stumbling under low branches, I find a path to follow. The song grows louder; then it stops. The white ghost moths flit above the bracken. A tawny owl moans softly. Red-legged partridges call from the cornfield.
There is a sudden ‘kwoink’, a deep rich sound, like a cork being pulled from a large and echoing glass bottle. It is the flight-call of the nightjar. Something dances in the air above me, flits and bounces upon air; long tail, long wings; a blur imprinted softly, and withdrawn; the nightjar has come and gone. The last light withers. Nothing happens. The highest branch of a dead oak widens at the top. The nightjar is perching lengthwise along the branch. His body lies low and flat, but his head is held upward. There is a soft chirrup, as though his syrinx clicked and spluttered; then the song begins. It starts far away, and seems to come slowly nearer. Suddenly it is very near. It increases rapidly in speed and volume. The bill is held wide open. The upraised head of the bird is large and frog-like. It flicks quickly from side to side, and the song changes in pitch and volume, seems then to come from some more distant nightjar. It rises and falls, an unbroken flow of sound, like the reeling-in of a fishing-line, but much louder and deeper, as though it were winding in the last faint threads of light.
When heard at a distance, a nightjar’s song can seem metallic, monotonous; but among the trees, close to the ear, it has a wonderfully musical dryness of timbre. It pulsates. The pitch changes every fifteen seconds, and the change is always preceded by a very short pause, like a change of gear. The sound is dimmed momentarily, and then released. The song can be heard for half a mile on a still night; at twenty yards it is astonishingly loud. The air trembles with it. It does not die away; it gathers between the trees and flows out into the wood. The whole of the May night is coiled within this song: the dark-smelling winy fragrance of the wood, the fading fragments of dead sky, the wolfish pines glittering with the early stars, the dry freaking of a bat, the hot tweedy smell of the damp earth. It is a sound the ear can never completely lose. It seems to emerge from an earlier darkness, before there was fire, when all such harmless sounds were a comfort, a soothing for the fever of fear that scorched man’s sleep in the woods.
The song stops. Just as it seemed as though it would never end, it snaps abruptly away. It seems to pierce the gloom with a visible, decisive spark. After a few seconds of the intense velvet darkness that follows the vanishing of a brilliant light, the nightjar leaps from his perch, his soft-flying wings reaching high above his head. The song falls back into his throat as he rises. He glides downward, and it shakes out in deep bubbling trills, runs out in sudden spurts and rushes, as though he were going down into deep water. There is a sharp smacking sound, like the smacking fall of a fish on to the surface of a pond. The nightjar rises again, and I can see that he is clapping his wings together above his back. Five times this loud wet clapping of the wings is repeated. It is a hollow sound, like the clapping of cupped hands or the slapping fall of a plank upon mud. It is like an invocation to the night, the ceremonial summoning of a god. A second bird, the female, calls close by. The two nightjars dance upon the sword-points of the stars. They swoop between the pines on the far side of the path. The wing-clapping begins again. One bird chases a big moth, diving down into greater silences, deeper shadows. They disappear. The pine crests are sharp and uncompromising against the sky. All else is very dark. The earth is abandoned to the incoming night.
 
 
The darkness of the wood is so intense that it seems to shine with a dim, skeletal light. There is a sense of hidden life, of endless movement, hunger, combat, like the dark warmth of the tidal blood. A nightjar twirls above. Behind it, leaping forward with wings curving back like immense sickle claws, is a hobby. I cannot tell whether it is pursuing the nightjar or swooping at the moths the nightjar feeds upon. It leaves a wake of stars. The night-darkened mind of the hawk seems to glow like the nebula of a distant city, as though the celestial glitter of its eyes shone from within.
A tawny owl beats down the dark ride. Many points of light, visible to him though I cannot see them, gleam in the grass and the bracken like a dew of fallen stars beneath the shadow of his wings. Something shrieks as the owl descends, bringing the endless darkness that follows the shreds of fire. Somewhere a life hangs limp; the still blood, in its continent of fur, hanging from the cold talons that have drawn the last flame. The death of an animal is very quiet, whether it is the slow suffocation of disease or the sudden leap from life of the slain. The owl’s hollow voice floats like a sail in the dark stream of the ride.
 
 
The nightjar sings again on the far side of the pines. The sound is pure and remote now. Like the darkness, it is colder, harder, pierced by the bristling stars. I go down through the wood with the song fading back behind me, fading to a faint line of sound, a thread that thins and frays and then snaps away. My feet slither on the sun-polished earth that still glimmers with light. The sky is softly black, bending over me like the moist eye of a deer.
The road slopes down, cold now, but webbed with hollows of warmth between tall hedges. The rich smell of the wood withdraws. Below me are the lights of the town, like a ship that can never depart.

The air is cold. The last owls call softly in the ebb of night. The drenched leaves are drab, the blossom limp, the grass grey with dew. A thin film of light is forming upon the surface of the garden. Rooks caw in the lifting sky. One by one the songs of birds shine through. Hedge sparrows, robins, blackbirds, thrushes, wrens, sing with growing vehemence and power. The air moves, and slowly rises, is translated into light. Starlings run over the wet grass, their flesh-coloured feet dark-webbed with moisture. The black swallows are conjured into blue. The immense cloud of sapphire light that is the sun moves up into the eastern sky. A forest of shadows falls suddenly across the shining lawns.
The first cuckoo calls in the hollow air of the owls. Bullfinches glow in the white hawthorn blossom. I cycle through the waking town, leaving the gold and silver garden-voices of the blackbirds and thrushes, rising up into the singing blue of the skylarks. Moorhens call from the roadside ponds, their red and yellow bills parting the reeds, their black and white tails flashing and vanishing. The trailing boughs of the weeping willows are slender, arrowy, like slow green rain arrested. A wren sings, and drifts down like a sharp brown leaf, shivering with the force of his trill. The hoarse calling of young starlings mingles with the answering harshness of the adult birds as they bring food to the gaping beaks. The introspective pines are dark with unsurrendered night.
 
 
The shadowed farmyards swoop and rise through an endless undulation of swallows and martins. A pied wagtail dances his dark feet upon the puddled water, seizing the first insects in their low bewildered flight. Maned by the morning mist, a sleeping shire horse stands. Mushrooms have grown beneath him, wandering upward where his feathered hooves have shone. A dead mouse dries in the sun, carried high in the jaws of a roan-wet stoat. A sudden breeze shivers through the flowing barley, and the poplar leaves patter and shine. The running hare has eyes of sunlight. A kestrel rises slowly from the dead branch of an ash. His small shadow circles out above the steaming fields. He gleams and fades, glinting like a golden cross.
The aromatic constellations of cow parsley glimmer like a white mist in the meadows and the grass verges. Goldfinches sing in the cottage gardens, like a tinkle of chilled wine. The wallflowers have a warm and smothering smell, entranced with bees. The village sky is cold with the sharp blades of hurtling swifts. The song of a greenfinch ripens among the apple blossom. The votive churchyard yews are slow to assume the sun.
 
 
The day has drifted down from the pure height of the morning, and the first white shower clouds move slowly through the sky. The road lifts, and the air suddenly changes. Long fields and orchards reach out to the horizon. Distant hills fringe the great circle of the earth and sky. The wide-spaced brown and yellow farmhouses rise slowly from the upland plain. Each one is overshadowed by its ivory cloud of horse chestnut trees in blossom. The trees are visible far off. They are a dim white haze that grows larger as I approach, but does not come any nearer. They have an overhanging look, like slow white smoke declining. The darkness between the boughs is bleak and wintry. The dark green leaves droop as though they were already dying, but the white flowers stand erect, pagoda-like, priested by bees. The duck-paddled mud of the farmyards, the feathered ponds, the wing-creaking barns, the mossy roofs, the curtain-fluttering windows big with sky: all are shadowed and borne upward by the slow-burning horse chestnuts aspiring into clouds.
The road shines across the flat land. The farms sink slowly down till only the white smoke of their blossom remains. In the darkness of memory the majestic horse chestnuts will rise again, monumentally still, standing like phantom white stallions above the fallen air of the empty stables.
Tall elms tower over the narrow lanes and at the edges of the wide fields. The air seems to move perpetually in those dark trees, rising into the high branches, floating the black rooks upward. Cock pheasants strut in the green corn, arrogant-coloured, copper-bronze. They stamp the arrows of their footprints down into the damp earth, and their scaly toes lift tiny fragments of soil that fall and glitter in the sun. The corn is as soft to the touch as a breeze moving gently against the fingers.
 
 
Where three roads meet, there is a small grove of slender larches and Scots pine. Sometimes a chaffinch sings here, or blue tits call, but there are no nests. Pine cones lie in the lane throughout the year, cryptic and strangely beautiful, like the symbols of an unknown language. They are shattered to fruitless seed by the pressure of passing traffic. Within the grove there is always a smell of sun-warmed resin, whether or not the sun is shining. The spirit of this place is elusive, it escapes into the surrounding air. Yet something breathes upon the edge of vision, like rain beginning. It touches the senses lightly, then departs. At a distance the grove seems to have entity, the self-possession of a single tree. But go in, and at once the wholeness leaps apart, fragmenting into more than individual trees. In spring, the grove smells of summer; in summer it smells of other summers, of the past. It is always beyond the present heat.
Skylarks sing in the shining haze of blue above the cornfields. They spiral up, hovering high and small, clinging to the sky with trembling wings. For five minutes they are bent to the wind, tense and tightly strung. Then they sink down, falling slowly towards the green earth that rises to meet them. A foot above the field they skim and flutter, making the corn fan out beneath. Suddenly they drop down, and are hidden. But soon they are running forward again, unable to be still, rising into the climbing flight of their song, their endless exaltation.
 
 
An avenue of limes appears in the upland plain. There is no gate. I turn in from the road, and the way between the spreading trees is damp and narrow, covered with fallen branches, nettles, and dead leaves. At the end, where there should be a house, the sky descends. Only rubble remains. The air smells of nettles and brick-dust. The morning light has gone. The ruins sink deeper under the gloom of the massed clouds.
Slowly the rain begins, the sky dissolving into smudgy grey, green light falling over the dark elms. I shelter in the untouched barn. The bales of hay and straw are stacked high, a nebulous glow, a soft yellow shining that fades up into prickly dusk. The cold smell of the rain drifts in, mingling with the musty, ancient smell of the barn. The lower half of the open door bangs shut in a sudden gust of wind and rain; the upper half becomes a square, framing the brilliant elms, the changing, rainsailed sky. The gleam of the bales rises in the greater darkness, like a breath of candle-flame. At the western end of the barn, constellations of dazzling light pierce through chinks in the dark boards. The flow of light from the doorway washes the wooden beams and posts till they shine like stone. The rain-cloud hangs above, as though it would enter; then it moves eastward, and blue sky appears. The rain drills heavily down upon the roof. A swallow strikes in through the wet air of the doorway, igniting the darkness with a sudden flare of blue. It swoops, and rises to the rafters, feeds its young in their clinging nest, swoops, and flies out into the rain.
Swallows and martins twitch endlessly through the rainlit air between the barn and the shrouded trees at the edge of the field. The harp-shaped elms are inhabited by the wind. They have a life of their own out there, cold and strange and glistening, like huge birds. Here in the barn, all is sleepy. The sparrows’ chirping voices are bright nails in the dry grain of the air. Nothing changes but the shape of my own thoughts.
The chance of the rain has sent me into this barn, a place I would not otherwise have seen and to which there may never be any reason to return. I possess a sudden freedom. I have entered an illumination like the sculptured moonlight of a dream, a cave within the vagary of the streaming day. These things around me, in their unguarded plainness, have now an ethereal beauty, as though they shone in the momentary revelation of the lightning flash.
The floor of the barn is simply the dry earth, uneven, crusted hard, drifted with a film of dust, spilt grain, crushed hay, the distillation of forgotten summers. Sparrows fly down and feed close to my feet, their eyes gleaming as they glance up at me. A distant blackbird sings, a vista of endless orchards opening through the reflection of his voice. Up in the darkness of the roof, the rain murmurs. The elms have lost their light. They look huddled and disconsolate now, their branches parting to reveal the brilliant duck-floating eye of a pond. A wet starlight of cow parsley shines in the green flow of the grass at the roots of the tossing trees. Slowly the sky takes shape in the flooded farmyard, blue and white water clouding over the brown earth.
Wind-wrenched, the half-door staggers open. The sun shines suddenly, spearing the water with a blade of light, printing black shadows. The rain seems to die away upward, shrinking back into the whiter clouds. I go out, and stand in the rain-fretted hollow of the sunlit air. I look back into the barn and see, for the first time, a white owl perched on a high beam. Its closed face has an implacable calm, dream-webbed, the perfect mask. It seems to breathe through a snorkel, being itself submerged, far down below the surface of the day.
 
 
The rubble of the fallen house has not been changed by the rain. There is a feeling of enclosure here, as though the dust of the walls still hovered in the drying air. This dust was a Tudor hall, timbered, angular, dark-windowed, facing the avenue of limes and the generations of horsemen riding home. The planted bushes and flowers of the garden are hidden deeper each year by the encroachment of thorn and bramble, by the shining victory of grass. A bullfinch alights on a stem of ash. The dense brick-red colour of his breast is reflected as a faint orange glow in the wet grey-purple of the ash bark.
Hidden by the elms of the pond, there is a small orchard of plum and apple trees, untouched for many years. The wind-fallen fruit is scanty and sour, and is eaten only by the birds. The grass is long, sere, and uncut, sighing with a fretful whiteness of wild chervil. The trees slant and twist upward. Their boles are grey and mossy. The place is quite unpossessed now. It has sloughed off the human presence. It seems to be too late for growth here, too soon for decay. It is beyond the reach of human love. Bullfinches call among the uncertain blossom. A blackbird sings. A surface has formed here; there is a bloom upon the air. A willow warbler flits from tree to tree, its song descending; but it does not stay. Nothing stays. A lurking jay flies through, and close by a cuckoo calls. Swallows touch the outer sky, but do not come any nearer. The light seems to be draped from tree to tree, like cobwebs that have been undisturbed for many years. The fruit may be sour and small, but the orchard itself has ripened. It is like a sphere of sequestered light and air. In time to come it will fall or be destroyed. But to-day it hangs in its own rich mellow ripeness from the suspending sky.
 
 
I go back to the road. Woodpigeons fly up from the trees, hundreds of clattering grey birds turning mauve as they rise into the sunlight, their white wing-bars and white-ringed necks gleaming. Then the sun is clouded over, and the woodpigeons turn black. Dark nets of distant rain trawl slowly through the light. The far hills are the colour of grey sea. Golden dandelions glow in the wet grass. I cycle through the gleam of rain and the reflections of white clouds. The green verges shine beneath the burnishing wings of the swallows. The ashen scent of the may mingles with the fragrance of the drying road.
In the corner of a field, penned in by hurdles, a pig sleeps upon straw. Its big floppy ears cover its eyes, like shading hands. It has the unreal appearance of something that has been discarded, like a blotched and bursting bolster. Its nose twitches, its ears question the silence; then slowly life rumbles back. But this does not alter the stranded, sacrificial shape, the look of helplessness.
Above the pig, a turtle dove rests drowsily upon a hurdle. A yellowhammer sings in the hedge, turning his brilliant buttercup-yellow head from side to side. The long ears of a hare are waking in the field. The hare casts about among the furrows, creeping slowly over the big brown clods, dragging its back legs stiffly forward. One large eye, the dark pupil visible in the clear light, watches me unwinkingly. It is raised above the level of the fawn face, bulbous, fearful, and very remote. There is no sign that it can see me. The hare seems to grovel, placating the earth, close to it, clumsy in movement, as though something had been broken, in body as well as in spirit. When I go nearer, it sinks small. Its tall ears bend, and slowly decline. Then it is off, lifting over the furrows lightly, spurting away in little puffs of brown earth, thudding deep into the long grass of the pasture, into what it does not yet know will be a hiding-place.
 
 
The still distances of the upland plain are slowly hidden by trees, and I come to rich meadows where cattle graze. The deep chrome-yellow glow of the buttercups is so dazzling that the eye cannot focus on an individual flower. Speedwell rises through the grass, like blue flood-water. A magpie swaggers and sidles among the buttercups, and his shape is faintly reflected in their liquid yellow shining. His white markings glisten in the sun. His head and back and wings are stained with the vivid colours of ink, black, blue-black, or blue. As he moves, they flicker with rainbow gleams of green and violet.
The footpath leads to a wood in the middle of the meadows. It is an intense, concentrated place, where the bright green leaves of ash and sycamore and willow are sombred over by the inner core of shadowy cypresses and firs. The wood is crossed diagonally by a broad green ride that curves from corner to corner. The grass is damp and shiny, and is never cut. The sun does not reach down to it, for the ride is enclosed by lines of tall Douglas and Noble firs. The branches of these great trees have never been lopped. They trail to the ground, they touch and entangle. They have an atmosphere of decay, a charnel breath, as though they were hung with huge bats cloaked in their inverted wings. They are unmoving, unchangeable, possess by a green dusk that is like a moss growing upon the light. Elders have risen beneath, from seeds that have fallen in the droppings of roosting starlings. There are many stinging nettles, shaped like the first above them. The ground is soft and spongy with dead leaves. Under a dark Noble fir there are three large cones. They are heavy, and cold, with a mineral density, as though they had been formed in the strata of the leaves. The bark of the tree is hard and rugose, as enduring and impervious as rhinoceros hide. Here in the shadowed wood I seem to have lost the day. I have stepped into another season, which is neither winter nor spring. It is as though a Victorian summer had been embalmed here for a hundred years.
A single Douglas fir, broken at the top yet growing still, like the shattered mast of a ship become a tree again, reaches far up into the light. Its highest branches shine above the other trees, like a palm above the sea. Thirty feet up, pressed close to the bole of the fir, a long-eared owl is perching. It is a wooden shape, rigid, stretched-out, looking too thin and gaunt to be an owl. It is like a tall, upright cone, a growth of the tree. The tufts of feathers, which look like ears, are erect, vertical, very close together on the top of its head. Its eyes are open, looking down at me. In the fir shadows, they shine with a deep honey-coloured glow, a rich golden-orange. Seeing it has been discovered, the owl turns and – without noise or effort – sinks suddenly down into darkness. There is a displacement of air among the shadows, an adumbration of wings. Bullfinches are calling beyond the dark fortress of the firs, in the lost present. A blackcap’s song has a bubbling, swift-running radiance, like fish-scales flashing. There is a sound of mobbing, of scolding birds pursuing an owl. It is very far off. It seems to come to me through the growth-rings of many years, as though I were standing at the heart of a tree.
 
 
It is a relief to emerge into the warmth of the late evening sun, to leave the subterranean light, the oppressive swamp-dusk of the firs. The ride crosses a plantation of small larches. There is a smell of recent rain. The wet green larches shine with the songs of birds. Somewhere a cuckoo calls, a beautiful monotony of sound floating to silence on the marisma of the bluebells. The pure green song of a willow warbler descends from a larch, a bright cascade of notes drifting down through the daffodil richness of a blackbird’s pondering voice. There is a line of tall trees at the end of the ride. A bronze light shines in the brilliant green of the oak leaves. A moorhen calls from the cloudless blue of a pond. The song of a blackcap rises from the marshy undergrowth of the brambles. It is like a small white fountain rising, an ascending curve of hurrying notes that rushes upward to end with a sudden flourish, like the sun flying through water.
As I return to the road, the sky darkens with cloud, and the slow summer rain begins. The sunlit brightness of the wood moves away into a smoke of blue shadow. The dark horse chestnut leaves are harsh with rain, and a cold wind rises, battering the icons of the blossom.
The road leads to a hill, and the plain below is hidden in the grey wake of the rain-clouds. There is nothing beyond. The day is over. The white may smells only of the rain.
I cycle downhill, freewheeling under the low branches of the dripping trees, falling slowly through the caves of green spray and the flowing blue flight of the misty swallows. The breathless smell of the woods surges through the wet air. Green fields stream up and meet above my head.
The fine rain is like a cloud of twigs parting endlessly in front of my face. Strange distorted trees stride past. I plunge deep into the darkness of the valley: wet stars, owls calling, the forlorn bark of a fox. The white parsley flutters at the wheels. There is a prickling of black swifts in the grey river sky. The Lombardy poplars have grown tall with night. I am lost in the shining forest of the rain.

The sun shone, and a sharp wind of light blew in my face, like the hot shuddering of a white sail above the green downland. The hills to the south were dark, receding in the wave-like ridges, fading from grey to blue and out into misty air. Those nearest seemed to be soaring away, those beyond to come slowly forward. The truly remote stood in the peace of their silence, belonging not to this landscape but to another time and place.
Below, on the slope of the downs, was a small wood, dark with the clouded green of the oaks, light with the feathery swaying of an ash, the white of the may, and a quiver of emerald larches. The warm-throated songs of the blackbirds drifted towards me in the breeze, audible only when the larks above were silent.
The meadow to the south was large and far-reaching, curving down to a green skyline that glowed beneath the taint of distant smoke. Swallows hawked above this field of rustling green and yellow light, and the wind hunted within it. The wind came up-hill, moving through the grass, sifting out into long ripples like the swaying of the sea. Sometimes it flowed evenly upward to break at the field’s edge, a thin, invisible wave of air. The south wind rose, and moved upon the hill of grass with a soft, insistent motion, coursing through it with long white lightnings, feathering above it with an oar-like sweeping. The tall grass bent over to whiteness, like shining falls of sunlit hair.
 
 
Late in the afternoon, the grass began to smell of hay. The rising wind was flashing away the greenness to a seethe of white. Bees droned in the clover, and there was a low, dancing haze of butterflies. I went down the hill, through the deep grass that spread out behind me in a shining wake, till I came to a group of bending pines. Two fox cubs appeared from a hole in the bracken. I stood still. The only sound was the rise and fall of the ocean wind in the tall pines. The cubs stood and watched me, their big eyes moist and shining. Both were startled when I raised the binoculars; one went down into the hole, the other stayed watching. Its eyes were pale blue, big blue irises surrounding small black pupils, brilliant in the fawn of its face. It tried to smell or hear something it could understand. Its long, striped ears kept folding and twitching. It had the round-eyed, uncomprehending look that all young animals have. Occasionally it ducked its head down and swung it from side to side. Then it went quickly and quietly back into the hole, big paws soft and clumsy in the dry earth.
 
 
Slowly the May afternoon declined into a summer evening. Rabbits fed in the grass, moving out with the spreading shadow of the hillside wood. There were clouds far to the south, but the sky was clear above. Only a few shavings of cirrus glittered in the blue. The wood was untouched, serene with song. Its green shade was like the cool green clasp of water. Something seemed to be growing and ripening there within, like the endless flow and ascension of light from the fallen sky of a pond.
The wood had been unchanged since sunrise. The hawthorns were still white with blossom; the ground beneath was covered by a mist of white petals, like a reflection of the flowers above. The ash trees had a lighter, fresher shade. A cuckoo called. The cooing of woodpigeons ebbed away from the edge of the wood. Many blackbirds sang, a rambling music, like sunlit summer rain. The voice of a nightingale pierced out with anguished sweetness from the white may. The bird’s throat shook with song, as though something inside were struggling to get free. The loud whistling power of the notes seemed unrelated to the constriction that produced them, seemed too pure and rich to have passed through the narrow syrinx of a bird.
I went closer to the wood. The green cloud of the trees sank into solidity, like a spent kite sauntering down. Between the bars of the gate I could smell the warm breath of the ferny ride. The interior of a wood is forever beyond our reach, so sunlit and complete, brimming with its own secret life. As soon as we enter, the trees move apart, the light changes, colour gains, something drifts imperceptibly away to again become the distance, lost in what is now the outer sky, the unattainable.
 
 
I circled the singing green of the trees till I came to a narrow path the rabbits had made. Stooping low, ducking beneath branches, I went guiltily into the wood. At once the wind faded up into the high trees, the air was still, the light overgrown with oak and hawthorn and elder. Jays called in the cool dusk of the shade, and a bullfinch fretted at the edge of silence. The island wood seemed to float across the down, like a raft. The silence grew, took shape, became a cool tower in the heat of the brilliant sky. It was a shading silence. Within it, I felt strangely safe. From the far side of a dead ash, a green woodpecker called softly, the sound half-smothered by the bulk of the tree. It drummed on the bark, a quiet rattling, like the drumming of a distant great spotted woodpecker. Then it called again, softly, hoarsely, as though talking to itself. Yet the sound was ardent, intense. When I moved, the two woodpeckers flew silently away. On this island I was a stranger, an intruder.
 
 
I walked deeper into the wood, treading furtively, uneasily. Crows flew slowly above, looking down, dark and menacing. The sun had gone from the lower trees. The air was cool and damp. There was a misty smell, and nothing shone. A woodpigeon lay so naturally in a patch of soft grass, as though on eggs, that at first I did not know that it was dead. I picked it up. Its grey back gleamed blue as it passed through the light. Its open eyes had a brilliant glaze, the pupils dark in the vivid blue of the irises. Looking at them was like staring in through the sky-filled windows of an empty house. The feathers were soft and loose, the whole body soft with flesh. I let it fall into the grass. It landed with a hollow slap. Acorns rattled in its crop. It died before it needed them. If left alone, it would become a tree.
I came to a sunlit clearing barred with long shadows. A turtle dove sang beneath the oaks, breathing out its gentle, amorous purr, a deep and leafy sound. The bracken swished, and separated, and a fox suddenly appeared in the narrow path ahead of me. My smell must have been far more pungent and choking to him than his glandular stench was to me, but for a long time he did nothing. He had been moving very slowly, as though pondering, perhaps not yet fully awake after his daylight sleep. He came forward a few paces. Watching his pale yellow and white face, slightly darker in colour about the amber shining eyes, I seemed to feel the soft mask of the fox pass over me. I felt the fetid breath, the questing nose that never sleeps, the hot cloak of senses so keen as to be unbearable to man. I stifled in the mask of the fox, as though I was his earth, his refuge. He looked out through my eyes. Then this strange feeling faded; and there was the fox again, a yard in front of me. Without any sign that he recognised me as an enemy, he walked slowly past and vanished into the bracken.
 
 
In the middle of the wood, just as I had thought that I must now be moving outwards again towards the perimeter, I entered a small plantation of larches. It was eight o’clock. The cobwebby larches enclosed an intense stillness. The plantation was dark inside, quiet and dark. There was a feeling of sudden descent, a sense of falling forward into a different place, another time, another air. Nothing sang. The light was unused, relapsing slowly into dusk. On the far side of the trees a misty brightness hovered beyond the gloom.
The stillness was broken by a flow of wings. A brown bird flitted low, a fanning of dry quills moving the fronds of the green bracken. Silently it rushed upward and landed on the raised antler of a fallen oak. Its long brown tail streamed out behind it like a wake of shining brown water. It was a hen sparrowhawk. Her back was ridged high, her curved head pecked the air. Pale upon the early gloom, flung up against it like a stranded wave, she shone with involuntary light. The yellow iris of her eye seemed to fade slowly down to red, as though it were reflecting a sunset. It burned towards me, searing through the dusk.
The hawk was never still. Her long legs trembled, her narrow toes clutched frantically at the bark. She quivered on the tines of the dead tree, like an autumn leaf before it falls. It was neither fear nor rage that made her shiver in this way. She was lifted by a dream of movement. In her mind she was still flying. The poplar of her muscles moves always in the wind of flight; it will never be calm till it is felled by death.
I took one step forward. She dived from the tree, and rose away towards the far side of the plantation, where the faint lines of light between the larches were now overgrown by dusk. She flicked the air with the splayed quills of her broad wings, as though it were too hot to touch. She flew with a phantasmal buoyancy and deftness, curving the shining snake of her flight between the distant trees. She crossed the last strands of sky; she was a dark feather laid upon the sinking sun; then she was gone.
 
 
I left the twilight of the larch plantation, and came out into the more open woodland, where the sun was still shining in the tops of the tallest trees. Some blackbirds were singing, others were scolding before going to roost. The shadow of night’s silence was slowly eclipsing the sounds of the day. A chaffinch called at the edge of the wood, and then a mistle thrush. The bracken moved in the wind and pecked lightly at my hands. A male sparrowhawk glided softly up from the downs to the south, like an arrow of feathery dusk drifting under the surface of the light. He rose to perch in an oak. As he landed, his long tail – barred with brown and white – spread out into a triangle of brown mist, then closed suddenly to grey. A frail cry, which seemed to trail up from the roots of the tree, pierced the resumed singing of the blackbirds: ‘keer, keer, keer, keer’: a bleating, forlorn shape of a sound. He saw me watching him, and he hopped along the branch till he was hidden by the bole of the tree. He was hidden, yet I could feel him trembling there. I could imagine his small lizard-like head pouncing forward and listening to the inimical stillness of the grey bark, while his gloom-piercing eyes spiralled out their rings of yellow fire into the ambush of the leaves.
After a minute of fear had slowly diminished him, the hawk went deeper into the wood. The trees were far below the sunlight now, and he could fly higher. He twisted silently away between the dark tree-tops, and perched on the dead branch of an oak, just out of sight. I had to move an inch or two to see him plainly. At once he was flying again. The human eye had scorched him. He retreated, flinging rapidly away like a small brown cloak thrown forward by the wind. Briefly the late sun reddened the bark-colour of his back, and made golden the dim sunset of his breast. He darted into a copse of silver birches, where pale light was floating on the rising dusk. Dodging to left and right between the trees, he stabbed away from me. Very far off, I heard him call, most mournful and despondent of sounds, a fast shrill whinnying that moved erratically among the birches, rising and falling. It was muffled, as though it were being made with the bill tightly closed. It was a loud, clear sound, yet frail; ‘kee, kee, kee, kee’, endlessly repeated, varying in pitch, running up into a grasshopper-like trill, then slowing and slurring. It was nasal, beaky, coming from high and far up in the curved, narrow head of the frightened hawk. He kept out of sight, twitching backwards and forwards behind the trees, crying out his simple emotion – of fear, or of summons to his mate – like an endless frenetic song. The sound raced faster, flew madly through the wood, then fled to the south, fading and sinking away. It stopped. There was a plaintive, pleading ‘kee-u, kee-u, kee-u’, with a soft rising inflection, like a whimpered reproach. Then only the wind, endlessly drifting the call of the hawk through the dark trees.
The male sparrowhawk lives very close to the edge of things. He is a primitive, an aboriginal among birds, savage in killing because his power is small. His long legs look thin and fragile, like stems of amber. He snatches his prey, bears it down, grips it insanely as though he fears its life will swell up in his foot, will swell up and burst and overwhelm him. He roosts late, in high dark trees, floating to his perch at dusk. The wind frightens him, as it moves the leaves across his eyes. He knows the tread of a man, and flies from it before he sees his fear. Every movement of the wood reaches out and touches him with a long finger. The need to serve the nest, to bring food for his mate and for the young birds, can make him less timid for a time. But unmated, or when nesting is over, he reverts to what he was: a wild-leaping gazelle of the air, whose thin yellow eyes pierce all shadow, whom all steps tread upon, whom all sounds deafen, whom all sights dazzle; the flying nerve of the wood.
 
 
The downland grass was already grey, and the sky was heavy with the rain-clouds that were moving up from the south. The wood sank into night. The white hawthorn blossom seemed to drift down through the twilight, descending slowly through the darkness of the trees. One by one the calls of the stone curlews rose in the long valleys of the downs, like fossil voices released from the strata of the chalk. Their dry exhalations remained suspended in the air above, so that the renewed calls rose always into the same ancient outline, shaping upon the darkness a stonehenge of haunting sound. A short-eared owl flew past, beating softly over the grass, turning its head to watch me with wondering, moonlit eyes.
 
 
I entered the wood again, and went down towards the road. The warm night dampened into rain that slowly became colder and straighter. I scrambled and slithered along the broad ride. The wet trees were heavy and steep with darkness, and the ground seemed more uneven than it had been earlier. I heard a bird singing in the open woodland to the west, and I stopped to listen. It was a wood lark. I plunged into the bracken, and blundered towards the distant sound. The bracken was as wet as an overgrown pond. Wet bushes loomed, and slashed, and went past. The ground began to rise. The lark was singing above a slope where there were few large trees and many open spaces. It circled above me, singing in the cold and drenching rain. The night breathed down upon my upturned face. I felt that the heavy splashes of the rain should sparkle, but there were black. In wide circles, rising and falling, the wood lark drifted and sang. The cold dissolution of the air was exhilarating. All around me was a blackness of rustling leaves that smelt of the sea.
The wood lark’s song is less abandoned and more melancholy-sounding than the skylark’s. Each new cadence is elaborated from the one that went before. The bird seems to ponder each phrase before shaping it into song. He sings it, lets it fall, recovers it, lets it fall, then lets it lie where it fell.
For twenty minutes I stood beneath the circling lark. He did not come down, nor was there any break in his song. There was no point in my staring up into the darkness, but I always did so, as though seeking a sudden transparency. It was a wonder to me that so small a fragment of life could fly in complete darkness, and in heavy rain, breathing so carefully, skilfully, out into nothing, for nothing, to nothing, but to be itself. When I was down in the wet road, deep down in the hollow of the night, I could still hear the song of the wood lark fading upwards like a ring of stars in the distant wood that seemed so far above me.

There is a yellow harvest light above the fields, a tawny glow that is neither summer haze nor autumn mist. The red combines roar, and the corn is flung high through the smoke and the yeasty clouds of seed. Shining flakes of cirrus float in the pale violet sky. Sparrows gather at the farm. Swallows fly through the tattered shade of the trees, over the falling ponds, into the twittering barns that smell of mist and bread. There is an oppressive silence in the cobwebby dusk of the copses.
The lane passes the farm, and rises to a skyline of elms. The faded blue dust of the sky between the dark trees is brightest above the horizon. There is a low glare, as though the sun were rising beyond. It is the shine of salt water, a light that seethes and is never still. The air is hot in the lane, the stuffy hedges subdued by a whisper of unseen birds. Suddenly all is changed. I can feel the east wind steadily increasing, bearing the coldness and rigour of the sea. The elms move in the wind now, and the curve of the horizon flattens and sinks down. I stand at the top of the hill. The long estuary rises before me. It shivers out to east and west, like a great spear of light flung between earth and sky.
The water shines. It has no dimension. I cannot tell whether it is higher or lower than the hill where I am standing. Water, air, and light, float upward together. This is the world of the sky, of the east wind, of the ancestral sea. There is a strange breathlessness in the air. The body is lifted up by the joy of arrival, by the voice of the curlew, by the soaring cries of the gulls. The sky has descended. All things are set apart, made distant. They have a different life, a remoteness they do not possess inland. The sea has risen. Its charismatic glitter towers above.
 
 
It is midday. The tide is high, and the salt air ascends. I go down to the sea-wall, to the hidden life, to the spectrum of colour that flows from the estuarine light. The trees move back, are inland now, deep in their foreign season. The fields reach out on either side. Stones glint, and the dry earth is dusty under the feet of the pheasants. A hare spurts away from the lane, and ripples through the bleached stubble. A field of ripe barley, not yet cut, is alive in the wind, hissing and plunging like the sea. The yellow stems sway endlessly, crowned with a luminous surf of creamy white. Low down over the rustling wheat there is a pale brown mist, where swallows course low and dark, endlessly leaping up into blue, like fish darting through sunlit water. Something seems to move mysteriously in the nacreous light of the barley, in the saffron shine of the wheat. It ferments there, an exhalation of the summer land. After harvest it disappears, not to be found in stubble, or straw, or flown seed. It rises into the air, becomes the August haze.
The gleaming metallic floss of the white thistledown drifts slowly westward in the wind, rising and falling. The white tail-coverts of the house martins undulate over the dark green potato fields; cabbage-white butterflies hover in a shimmering dance above the heat-haze of the withered blossom. The long green ridges narrow to the horizon, meet in a mist of grey.
A kestrel hovers high above the stubble, a dark pulse twitching in blue air. He sinks down, hovers low, then sweeps upward again, slanting through the sky, relaxed, languid, calm-winged, content to rise and fall upon the air. The sun gleams on his sand-coloured back and wings, dark primaries, grey head, and long grey tail. The yellow shine of the slow-turning fields is reflected in the bland brown eye that gazes down. The curved face has the look of sleep upon it. He is tranquil, impassive, gliding with endless leisure, making a few idle circles, accepting the movement of the sun-warmed air, filtering it slowly through the rippling feathers of his outstretched wings. He glides to the east, is immersed and hidden in the heat-haze of the horizon, adrift in the summer wind.
 
 
The stony lane goes down, and dust rises as I pass. Skylarks flutter from the stubble with tremulous downbent wings and pure calls almost becoming song. They sink slowly down again, and run over the warm earth, their crests moving slightly in the wind. The white mayweed at the edge of the field shines in the deep ferny green of its leaves. Flocks of linnets sing as they flit and bounce above, aerial and unconfined. A yellowhammer flies up as I approach, a film of gritty dust dulling the brilliant colour of its feathers. The sea-wall rises slowly as the lane descends. The dazzling light of the estuary is compressed into a narrower and whiter line that suddenly vanishes. At once the air seems heavy, and the heat stifling.
A little owl has been lynched. He hangs by the neck from a gate-post where he sang in April. His big head seems shrunken now, lolling judiciously downwards in death, eyeless and light. Nothing can re-awaken the aching purity of his spring call. The peeled syrinx will, in time, emerge white and mute from the shrivelled husk of his throat, merely the bones of a voice. He moves in the wind, a dark plebeian swaying over the doomed patrician pheasants that swagger through the stubble.
 
 
The gate opens into a field where sheep are grazing. Two hundred yards to the south the sea-wall rises, a high slope of withered grass. The field is soft and green. There are few sounds. Rooks caw as they fly up from the grass and alight in the small stunted oaks that stand beside the dyke. Bulrushes bend heavily in the breeze. Some reed warblers are singing, a hesitant, fragmentary reminiscence of their summer reverie, instrumental in the tufted reeds. A snipe goes up, and a small flock of lapwings ebbs slowly out into the centre of the field. The still water of the dyke at the foot of the sea-wall is hidden by a scum of brilliant emerald weed. A green sandpiper rises suddenly from the muddy edge, as though it had been lifted by the wind. It dashes steeply up, jerking from side to side, erratic as a bat. It seems to follow a known pathway through the air, a maze of flight. It is a puckish, ethereal bird, a haunter of the dark green dykes and the deep gutters of the saltings. It is here at the end of every summer, a bright call twining up into the sky, seldom seen till almost gone.
The tall grass on the slope of the sea-wall is hissing in the wind and bending away to the west. It has a dry smell, like distant fire. It feathers the blue light of the sky. I clamber up, and a short-eared owl is wafted from the grass above. It passes close to me, directly overhead, looking down with what seems to be an expression of ineffable calm. Its huge eyes shine like lost gold in the withered grass of its face. I feel as a mouse must feel under the archangelic shadow of the great wings, and the flaring eyes, before the final darkness and the last angina pang of death. The owl’s wings beat slowly, and it is lifted and cast away by the wind, moving without apparent effort of will, as though it were flying in its sleep.
 
 
It is colder near the top of the wall. The inland fields are quiet. All sound comes from the estuary. A curlew flies over, heavily, wearily; then suddenly becomes buoyant with its rising voice. The tide must be very high now, for I can feel the cool breath of the brimming water, only a yard away from me, hidden by the grass. As I raise my head to look over the top, I seem to go out of the hot sunlight into the cold shadow of the wind.
Looking along the calm surface of the incoming tide, I cannot see where water ends and sky begins. At eye-level, the trees and buildings on the southern shore are hidden below the shining curve of the water. Half-way across the estuary, a mile to the south, a white sail is shimmering. Beyond it, there is only mist and distance that the eye cannot focus. The sail floats in a new element. Water and sky have an equal glittering smoothness, a porcelain glaze. The boat seems huge, winged with sail, for its size is doubled and made kite-shaped by the reflection beneath. It moves calmly forward, dipping and rising through the mirror of the water-sky. Then it turns to the west, and gradually diminishes, sinking slowly down into the tide.
The straight line of the sea-wall, where I am sitting, forms the eastern arm of a wide bay. Redshank fly across the water, leaving the shrinking tufts of the saltings. Curlew are moving inland. Many small waders have gathered on an elevated strip of shore along the western side of the bay. Using the sea-wall as concealment, I stalk these birds, creeping over the wall and down to the shore, without disturbing them. They are a flutter of grey and white, fifty yards away. The wind is rising, and small clouds have formed. The narrow shore is appreciably higher than the saltings, and is rarely covered by the tide.
 
 
Thousands of migrant waders feed along the perimeter of the estuary, on the saltings and mud-flats. For a few hours, or days, or weeks, they will stay here; then they will leave. The thought of the south – if so nebulous a conception can be called a thought – will grow in the mind of the flock, like a germination of a seed, and the present will suddenly become the past. The torrent of a wader’s mind can reflect nothing. There is no looking forward or back. There is only the impulse, like the tide drawn out by the moon.
It is impossible to compare a wader with any other species of the same size. They are so different; water and mud have changed them; they are beyond all other birds, as far out as they can go. They run, and their long legs flicker like the revolving spokes of a wheel; they fly, and their wings revolve like interrupted sunlight and their long bills shine. They can feed as easily in darkness as in light. They are birds of the forlorn edge of land. Their calls are the calls of parting. They do not belong in any world that we can recognise or comprehend. A dead wader is like something that has been shed from the sky. One cannot find the life it had. The surface has changed, the bloom has gone.
 
 
It is hard to tell how many waders are resting on the shore in front of me. I can count at least two hundred, and there are others hidden farther to the south. Some are asleep, standing on one leg. They face the wind and the incoming tide, which is already showering the lowest birds with spray. A group of starlings, and a magpie, are resting with them. They are birds that became accidentally entangled in the wildly whirling flock of waders as they flew over the fields to the west. They are now behaving like waders, as though they were hypnotised by the mind of the mob.
Four dunlin suddenly fly past, hesitant, wayward, skimming low, looking for land. Three of them alight on a small hump of mud that still projects from the water; the fourth bird overshoots it, hovers with feet splashing, then lets the wind carry him backwards till his feet touch the mud. In the telescope, the dunlin are very close, less than a yard away. I can see the intricate brown and fawn stripes that glow upon their backs. Their legs run quickly, a dark oily flicker in the sunlight; then they are still, black and wet and shining. Their long bills, narrow and curving slightly downwards at the tip, seem merely to peck at the mud, poking it, as though they were unaccustomed to their awkward length. They must be finding food very near the surface. Their dark eyes seem colourless, innocent of thought, reflecting the mud and the starring of the sun. They are round eyes, like bivalves, filtering the light.
The musical sound of the assembling waders increases in volume as the tide rises. The grey plover look stolid and settled. Some still have the black and silvery-white feathers of their summer plumage; others are in winter dress, a pallid arctic grey. Occasionally the plover wake, and call mournfully, as other waders fly down to join them; then they sleep again. There is an endless confusion of shrill cries, of wings hissing and fluttering over the immense rising stillness of the water. The strip of shore narrows, and the waders huddle closer, some standing in the tide. Deep in the grey cloud there are the tortoiseshell gleams of turnstones. Redshank alight, their orange legs quivering and their red-billed heads nodding nervously, but they do not stay. A party of dunlin are now so close together that their wind-ruffled feathers look like the humped fur of a bear. Swallows flit and glide past, swooping down with a hollow rush of curved-back wings to seize insects from the surface of the water.
The sun shines between the big white clouds. The sky is a deeper blue, a brilliant glow of cobalt, an estuary sky. Low down, near the cloud-lifting light of the tide, I have a wonderful feeling of involvement with the whole water world around me, with the waders whose luminous wild cries float endlessly out across the soft sky of the bay. A flock of greenshank stream past, their colours brilliant, intense, an unearthly shining of flake-white, olive, and grey ash.
The dunlin are very close now, only ten yards away. Their brown backs, long bills, black legs, and large dark eyes, are moist with watery light. Their black bellies rest on soft reflected black. Over their plumage, over their white-striped faces and rounded bodies, there is a sleek bloom glowing, a sheen like a film of dew, as though they have emerged from the water and will soon go back beneath its sheltering surface. I make a slight movement that alarms them. After much hesitation, and restless turning of their heads, they fly away, calling quietly, trailing their long legs in the water. They sail through the sunlight, like a gold and silver bow that bends back across the bay and then straightens down to the shore again as though its arrow had been loosed. When dunlin are so tame, one feels they must be in some way simple, their senses dulled by some congenital defect. The truth is that man’s tall image can still bend harmlessly about their water-rounded life.
 
 
The tide rises higher, and the shore is almost covered. I have to go back to the inland side of the wall. The waders begin to leave the diminishing line of shingle. They fly above the bay in small oval flocks. The water seems to lose its pearly shine as it comes closer to the top of the sea-wall. There are more clouds now, and the strengthening wind has shattered the reflections. Sleeping gulls and duck float peacefully in the centre of the bay. Three herons fly slowly to the north.
There is a roar of rising wings. The shingle has disappeared, water rules, and the waders must find refuge in the sky. They rise together in a dense cloud of wings and articulate, sorrowing calls. A stream of gold and white and silver shapes pours down like an emptied seine of glimmering fish. For ten minutes the twinkling flocks hurl wildly round, rising and falling in shining waves and flinging spray. Then they disperse, flying inland to rest until the water sinks again.
 
 
The tide moves up in tiny jerks and quivers till it is only six inches below the top of the wall. For a long time it seems to remain at that level. The ebb is never at first apparent. The estuary is larger than it has ever been. There is more water. The sea-wall, which usually stands high above the tide, looks now like a thin line of shore half-hidden by the waves. The shining grey horizon to the south seems to float upon the water. The distant elms have lost their green haze, the buildings their white glitter. There is no sun, the wind is cold, grey clouds move endlessly across the sky. There is a harsh smell of the sea. The bay is no longer blue. Small waves foam over the leaden surface where mallard and shelduck are sinking and rising. The grass of the saltings is waving in the wind of the sea, far down below the surface. The air is quiet. The waders have gone. There are no swallows; they are feeding over the dykes or have flown inland. The dark head of a seal appears in the bay. Cormorants fly steadily above, looking for their lost perching-places, old posts and barnacled jetties now concealed by the highest tide for many years.
To the north, beyond the eastern arm of the bay, there are patches of brown and white discolouring the shining yellow stubble near the lane. In the telescope, this haze of small dots grows into hundreds of resting water-birds. Twenty great black-backed gulls are standing on the horizon. Their ivory-yellow bills are like a line of tusks. Skylarks chase and flash low across the stubble, where the legs of redshank gleam like orange stalks among the yellow. The sleeping curlew look like faded plants, their bills like withered pods. A host of small waders is waiting for the tide to fall. Their minds – whether or not they are asleep – are idle and suspended, like sails at rest. They have that blank certainty we call patience. There is nothing to be done till the mud that contains their food has risen from the water. They are becalmed, their bodies swaying in the wind above the long stems of their legs.
 
 
I leave the sea-wall, and walk across the long narrow promontory of green fields that separates the bay from the creek to the west. I feel as though I had been afloat, borne up by the rising tide. Now I am stranded on the strange unrelenting flatness of the land again. The grass of the fields is a rich, deep green, soft and yielding to the tread. Black rooks waddle and probe. Lapwings go up silently, like big black and white butterflies. Flocks of resting waders, which had been hidden in the long grass, rise suddenly in front of me, slanting and rushing upward like a cloud of fine black dust, dark and tornado-shaped, a serpent of the air.
A wide dyke crosses the fields, overshadowed by a hawthorn hedge. There are several small reedy ponds and clumps of gorse close by. A common sandpiper is feeding in the mud at the edge of the dyke. It bobs up and down as I watch it. But bobbing is a meagre word for that violent galvanic spasm, that convulsion of head and body as involuntary as a hiccup. The sandpiper feeds, and then runs forward again. It keeps jerking upward, like a puppy being lifted high on its legs by the twitching up of a lead. Suddenly it flies low along the dyke and across the field, as though it were escaping from itself, flicking away in a level curve of flight, its down-bent wings jerking like stiff blades.
Swallows dip and flutter over the still water of the dyke. Yellow wagtails spurt up with shrill calls, as though they had been catapulted into the air. The sun shines suddenly, and all colours glow. The shrivelled leaves of a poplar are stained with an acid yellow. The hawthorns look parched. They have no burnish now, but the dark red berries gleam in the sun. Blackbirds and song thrushes are feeding upon them. A willow warbler trembles on a twig, tame but fearful. It is a young bird, almost as yellow as a yellow wagtail.
Two snipe are standing deep in the mud of a pond. I have the sun behind me, and can get close to them. They crouch, resting low on their greenish legs. Their long bills are held downwards, a few inches above the surface, glistening wet and brown. Occasionally a drop of mud runs down the shining barrels and falls glinting to the ochre mud beneath, where the snipe are faintly reflected. With their large brown eyes always closing, yet never completely shut, and their bills held at ease, they have the sleek, contented look of pigs asleep. They grow among the green water-plants, like big, brown and fawn-striped marrows. I feel I shall have to uproot them. But when I move forward, they are off at once, rising without effort, calling hoarsely as they twist up above the fields, out of sight in ten seconds.
 
 
A large brown bird is flying over the far side of the field, beating slowly to and fro below the level of the sea-wall. It turns, floats, sinks and rises, looking very like a short-eared owl, though its head is smaller and narrower. Its long, wide wings move heavily up and down, and are then held high above its back in short glides. It is a marsh harrier. Two crows are trying to drive it away. It beats along the dyke, and sweeps low over the gorse-thickets and the reeds of a pond. Suddenly it banks steeply, and swivels round in a tight circle to go back the way it came. Its wing-beats are measured and ponderous. The primaries are separated and spread wide apart as it glides, projecting outwards and upwards like brown-gloved fingers. Sometimes it hovers for a moment, very slowly, then flies on as before. Twice it swoops down and skims up again, with long legs hanging loose and big talons raking aimlessly through the reeds. To escape from the crows, it rises across the fields to the north, putting up flock after flock of starlings. At three hundred feet it begins to glide. Slowly it soars above the fields in large circles. Its outspread wings and tail are very long and wide. Its downbent head seems disproportionately blunt and slender. The crows follow it for a time, looking small in comparison. It drifts high to the north, and disappears above the cornfields.
Disturbed by the harrier, a wood sandpiper rises from the dyke, making the sky seem lighter. It wanders up into the wind, calling as it tilts and sways over the apex of its climb. It swoops and zigzags down to land with beautiful precision on the speck of pond-mud that its eye has chosen. There is so much sameness of mud to choose from that one would think it unimportant where they landed, yet waders seem always to select a specific place.
The wood sandpiper’s flight, and call, and way of life, are as difficult to bring down into words as it is to seize a passing swift by the wing. Once can describe it biologically, but one cannot adequately explain its appeal to the watcher. It is the outward look, the surface gloss, that matters. It seems to be so light, so filled with sunlit air, so loose and free along the edge of land and water, like a shadow of sunlight in a world of shadow.
Ten minutes later, another marsh harrier is hunting near the pond. This is a larger, darker bird, which flies in exactly the same way, with many abrupt changes of direction. The slowness of its deep wing-beat is deceptive, for it is moving quite fast. The steady pulse of the leisured wings seems to disguise the predatory intent. Suddenly the bird spins round, with wings stretched flat and firm upon the air. Then it crumples, and falls violently into the reeds beneath. I do not see it rise, but I cannot find it when I walk around the pond. Two snipe fly up, and a rabbit runs past me. The marsh harrier lifts heavily from the gorse-bushes fifty yards away. It is an adult female, very dark brown, with a white face and throat, and a brilliant golden-yellow crown. As it flies to the north-east, across the bay and above the inland fields beyond, I think of it – incongruously perhaps – as being like a shire horse. It seems to have the same colour, the same heavy power and unexpected speed and lightness. I am more used to seeing smaller hawks. This bird is so large, so slow to anger, so much farther back in time. It seems to have a long way to come within its own body before it begins to fall towards its prey.
 
 
I cannot see the estuary from here, but there is a glow of light, and a brightness in the air above, which could never be found inland. The field is quiet, and the sky is overcast again. The east wind moves through the dry reeds and the brittle spines of the gorse, bends the grass into a flow of white, quivers among the faded leaves of the hedge, and passes away to the west. There is a lisping of blue tits in the hawthorns, and the occasional harsh chuckling call of a hidden magpie. The estuary birds seem to be sanctified by the illumination of water, by the nearness of the sea. The loneliest land is that which is always about to end.
The clouds are high above, but lower and darker to the north and south, presaging rain. The water of the creek has a serene surface of bluish grey, lines and flecked with light, closely and intricately pleated by the wind-waves. It is cold upon the sea-wall, and there is a smell of rain in the air. The land to the west, beyond the wide creek, shines black and white. All colour has gone. To the north, half a mile away, at the head of the creek, there are houses, trees, and the masts of boats, sharp and clear against the low hills beyond.
Through the binoculars I can see every detail, outlined in dark grey: the white yachts; the plantation of brown and yellow masts, their summer sails already shed; the bright grey water swindling down into veins of silver blue between shining slopes of mud; the moored boats rocking upon the surface, tilting the perched white gulls. Beyond the haze of masts there are bungalows half-hidden by dark Monterey cypresses and wind-lashed Lombardy poplars. The binoculars create a place that does not exist. If I were as close as they pretend, all would look different. Only from here, in the silent privacy of distance and the illusion of the magnifying prisms, is there a wooded land beyond the summer village, a dark mysterious unattainable place, a forest of elms and cypresses and firs.
In some winters an immigrant sparrowhawk will make this illusion real, hunting daily through the gardens of the empty holiday bungalows, roosting in the evergreen darkness of the cypresses. He sees the place for what it really is: derelict open woodland with many dead trees standing upon the water. He glides low over the lonely gardens, perching upon gates and chimneys, passing like a grey wind through the winter dusk of the fallen summer land.
 
 
Along the sides of the creek, the saltings are rising from the water as the tide sinks slowly down. Twelve magpies fly out from the hawthorn hedge to the saltings, but they do nothing when they get there. They appear to be waiting to feed, vivid streaks of black and white against the dark green of the glasswort and suaeda. Goldfinches leave the thistles of the field, where they have been feeding. They fly lightly through the wind, dropping down on to the saltings, their tinkling calls as airy and tremulous as the wind in the salt grass. Robins sing in the oaks and hawthorns near the wall, and their melancholy cadences harmonise with the sad calling of the redshanks in the creek.
Suddenly there is a shrill whickering call behind me, like the voice of a wader. Two stoats are bounding along below the sea-wall, springing high over the tufts of grass, calling as they run. One turns, and dashes up the steep slope of the wall towards me, flashing reddish-brown under the tall grass. He stops abruptly, close to my feet, and disappears, wriggling down into a crevice in the dry earth. He emerges a moment later, and peers up at me through the grass, standing on his hind-legs to see me better. After a long look, he comes slowly out into the open, and pours himself down into a small hole. Again he is too curious to remain below. He soon pokes his head out to see if I am still there, resting his front paws on the edge of the hole. Through the binoculars I can see clearly the thin, pointed, wolfish face, and the raised black circles of the unchanging eyes. He does this twice more, diving down and popping suddenly up again. Then he tires of it – or just forgets – and does not reappear.
 
 
The east wind is bending tall from the sea, then slowly drooping and falling limp upon the water. It is a time without age, the final clarity of summer. The estuary seems to drift slowly from the land, like a raft of severed sky. The light lies upon the surface in a thin brilliance, a glistening film. The clouds have passed to the west, and the sun shines again. The green seaweed, and the wet yellow mud beyond, glow in the sun. The pale herring gulls stand at the edge of the receding tide, gleaming like huge pearls. To the north, where the sky is dark with rain, tall cowls of orange flame dance above the burning stubble. Swallows flicker endlessly over the dykes and the saltings. Distant mallard climb the sky. The elegiac song of a robin lingers in the salt air.
I watch the evening light withdraw. The estuary sinks lower as the tide ebbs away and the bland mud rises. Curlew, redshank, and grey plover, are feeding on the shore. Their subdued plaintive calls seem to fly softly, endlessly outward over the reflections of the sky in the wet mud. A black-tailed godwit rises into flight, long-billed and angular. It sways above the water, gliding with wings held high and drooping from the shoulder, as a heron glides. It sweeps down and back to the shore, with its bill swinging from side to side like a length of piping. The rust-brown blade of sail comes slowly in from the sea. The water is now a pale snow-blue, on which feathers of darker blue are floating. The sail of the barge turns red, then black, as it drifts away to the west, moving inland. The water settles behind it, ruffling out like the feathers of a sleeping bird.
Hundreds of black-headed gulls rise from the green fields as I go back towards the bay. The air is ragged with their hectoring calls. Lapwings lament, but do not fly up. The land has a lost look now, as the sun goes down. The distant bleating of sheep deepens the evening silence. Everything seems to be slowly subsiding, land and water moving downwards together. The saltings of the bay are sage-green and brown and tawny yellow with the withered sea-shapes of salicornia and suaeda. The gutters of the saltings, sunk deep between ten-foot cliffs of mud, are invisible from the sea-wall. The bay seems much wider than it did when there was only water to be seen there. The flatness of land has a greater distance than the flatness of water. Many redshanks are feeding, hidden by the saltings. They call unceasingly, a musical diffusion of wild sound that cannot be identified with any individual bird. These are not isolated bird-voices. The sound I hear is like the melancholy utterance of the mud itself, of the falling water, of the quiet desolation, of the saltings’ twilight world.
 
 
I stand on the sea-wall, where I first looked over at the brimming tide eight hours ago. The distant red woods of the northern horizon are like sombre spires of rain. A line of waiting herons, a gaunt Egyptian frieze, recedes along the sunlit shore. Two miles to the south, across the water and the mud, I can see the powdery white shapes of concrete towers and promontories, their whiteness flaking slowly into haze. Far above me, harsh screams are shearing at the air. High in the descending sunlight, two common terns gleam white across the sky. They glide downward, one close behind the other, drifting and swaying, rushing silently down in a wave of snaking curves. They come lower, circling overhead, calling fiercely, their red bills daggering from black crowns.
Sunset kindles in the shallow water; the herons leave the shore, and rise to where the sun still shines. It is already dusk in the green field between the sea-wall and the lane. High clouds redden in the west. A little owl calls from an oak. A flock of migrating greenshank circles slowly in the deep blue autumnal sky, moving steadily and rising over the estuary and the inland fields. Their beautiful, flat, monotonous four-note calls recede and return for ten minutes, till ultimately they die away to the south. Distant fires prick yellow through the smoke of dusk. Flocks of starlings fly west toward their roosting-place; mallard go inland to feed in the stubble. There is an inevitable stillness here, like the calm solitude of still water. A meadow pipit calls as I cross the field. The green of the grass intensifies, then fades to grey. All shapes recede, then seem to come slowly nearer, as dusk deepens and day ends.
There is a soft breath of parting among the brittle stems of the reeds at the side of the dyke. A short-eared owl floats up into the air. Its wings press slowly down and forward as it billows away across the fields. Gliding and banking steeply, it fades through the dusk. All around me, I hear the calls of golden plover rising like a mist of sound.
The flames of the stubble-fires sink down under their wings of smoke. Pheasants call. The song of a tawny owl wavers from a distant wood. I go up the lane towards the farm. At first the estuary is hidden from me by the sea-wall. It is lifted higher as the path rises; remote now, and dark, though only half a mile away. The black-edged water is silvery at the centre, shrinking down upon the mud. The far shore gleams red, and there is a reflection of boats at rest and of the trees above them, under the last blue line of sky.
Deep in the afterglow, the gently imploring calls of partridges breathe upwards, like smoke-curls of autumn dusk. A hare runs into the dark corn. The empty land reaches out beyond the dusk, into the dews of night, into the fields of stars.
The estuary sinks slowly down below the black rampart of the farm, with all its brightness held up to me for the last time in one great flashing rim of light. Then I go inland, into the dark country of the minatory owls.
The sun shone, and a sharp wind of light blew in my face, like the hot shuddering of a white sail above the green downland. The hills to the south were dark, receding in the wave-like ridges, fading from grey to blue and out into misty air. Those nearest seemed to be soaring away, those beyond to come slowly forward. The truly remote stood in the peace of their silence, belonging not to this landscape but to another time and place.
Below, on the slope of the downs, was a small wood, dark with the clouded green of the oaks, light with the feathery swaying of an ash, the white of the may, and a quiver of emerald larches. The warm-throated songs of the blackbirds drifted towards me in the breeze, audible only when the larks above were silent.
The meadow to the south was large and far-reaching, curving down to a green skyline that glowed beneath the taint of distant smoke. Swallows hawked above this field of rustling green and yellow light, and the wind hunted within it. The wind came up-hill, moving through the grass, sifting out into long ripples like the swaying of the sea. Sometimes it flowed evenly upward to break at the field’s edge, a thin, invisible wave of air. The south wind rose, and moved upon the hill of grass with a soft, insistent motion, coursing through it with long white lightnings, feathering above it with an oar-like sweeping. The tall grass bent over to whiteness, like shining falls of sunlit hair.
 
 
Late in the afternoon, the grass began to smell of hay. The rising wind was flashing away the greenness to a seethe of white. Bees droned in the clover, and there was a low, dancing haze of butterflies. I went down the hill, through the deep grass that spread out behind me in a shining wake, till I came to a group of bending pines. Two fox cubs appeared from a hole in the bracken. I stood still. The only sound was the rise and fall of the ocean wind in the tall pines. The cubs stood and watched me, their big eyes moist and shining. Both were startled when I raised the binoculars; one went down into the hole, the other stayed watching. Its eyes were pale blue, big blue irises surrounding small black pupils, brilliant in the fawn of its face. It tried to smell or hear something it could understand. Its long, striped ears kept folding and twitching. It had the round-eyed, uncomprehending look that all young animals have. Occasionally it ducked its head down and swung it from side to side. Then it went quickly and quietly back into the hole, big paws soft and clumsy in the dry earth.
 
 
Slowly the May afternoon declined into a summer evening. Rabbits fed in the grass, moving out with the spreading shadow of the hillside wood. There were clouds far to the south, but the sky was clear above. Only a few shavings of cirrus glittered in the blue. The wood was untouched, serene with song. Its green shade was like the cool green clasp of water. Something seemed to be growing and ripening there within, like the endless flow and ascension of light from the fallen sky of a pond.
The wood had been unchanged since sunrise. The hawthorns were still white with blossom; the ground beneath was covered by a mist of white petals, like a reflection of the flowers above. The ash trees had a lighter, fresher shade. A cuckoo called. The cooing of woodpigeons ebbed away from the edge of the wood. Many blackbirds sang, a rambling music, like sunlit summer rain. The voice of a nightingale pierced out with anguished sweetness from the white may. The bird’s throat shook with song, as though something inside were struggling to get free. The loud whistling power of the notes seemed unrelated to the constriction that produced them, seemed too pure and rich to have passed through the narrow syrinx of a bird.
I went closer to the wood. The green cloud of the trees sank into solidity, like a spent kite sauntering down. Between the bars of the gate I could smell the warm breath of the ferny ride. The interior of a wood is forever beyond our reach, so sunlit and complete, brimming with its own secret life. As soon as we enter, the trees move apart, the light changes, colour gains, something drifts imperceptibly away to again become the distance, lost in what is now the outer sky, the unattainable.
 
 
I circled the singing green of the trees till I came to a narrow path the rabbits had made. Stooping low, ducking beneath branches, I went guiltily into the wood. At once the wind faded up into the high trees, the air was still, the light overgrown with oak and hawthorn and elder. Jays called in the cool dusk of the shade, and a bullfinch fretted at the edge of silence. The island wood seemed to float across the down, like a raft. The silence grew, took shape, became a cool tower in the heat of the brilliant sky. It was a shading silence. Within it, I felt strangely safe. From the far side of a dead ash, a green woodpecker called softly, the sound half-smothered by the bulk of the tree. It drummed on the bark, a quiet rattling, like the drumming of a distant great spotted woodpecker. Then it called again, softly, hoarsely, as though talking to itself. Yet the sound was ardent, intense. When I moved, the two woodpeckers flew silently away. On this island I was a stranger, an intruder.
 
 
I walked deeper into the wood, treading furtively, uneasily. Crows flew slowly above, looking down, dark and menacing. The sun had gone from the lower trees. The air was cool and damp. There was a misty smell, and nothing shone. A woodpigeon lay so naturally in a patch of soft grass, as though on eggs, that at first I did not know that it was dead. I picked it up. Its grey back gleamed blue as it passed through the light. Its open eyes had a brilliant glaze, the pupils dark in the vivid blue of the irises. Looking at them was like staring in through the sky-filled windows of an empty house. The feathers were soft and loose, the whole body soft with flesh. I let it fall into the grass. It landed with a hollow slap. Acorns rattled in its crop. It died before it needed them. If left alone, it would become a tree.
I came to a sunlit clearing barred with long shadows. A turtle dove sang beneath the oaks, breathing out its gentle, amorous purr, a deep and leafy sound. The bracken swished, and separated, and a fox suddenly appeared in the narrow path ahead of me. My smell must have been far more pungent and choking to him than his glandular stench was to me, but for a long time he did nothing. He had been moving very slowly, as though pondering, perhaps not yet fully awake after his daylight sleep. He came forward a few paces. Watching his pale yellow and white face, slightly darker in colour about the amber shining eyes, I seemed to feel the soft mask of the fox pass over me. I felt the fetid breath, the questing nose that never sleeps, the hot cloak of senses so keen as to be unbearable to man. I stifled in the mask of the fox, as though I was his earth, his refuge. He looked out through my eyes. Then this strange feeling faded; and there was the fox again, a yard in front of me. Without any sign that he recognised me as an enemy, he walked slowly past and vanished into the bracken.
 
 
In the middle of the wood, just as I had thought that I must now be moving outwards again towards the perimeter, I entered a small plantation of larches. It was eight o’clock. The cobwebby larches enclosed an intense stillness. The plantation was dark inside, quiet and dark. There was a feeling of sudden descent, a sense of falling forward into a different place, another time, another air. Nothing sang. The light was unused, relapsing slowly into dusk. On the far side of the trees a misty brightness hovered beyond the gloom.
The stillness was broken by a flow of wings. A brown bird flitted low, a fanning of dry quills moving the fronds of the green bracken. Silently it rushed upward and landed on the raised antler of a fallen oak. Its long brown tail streamed out behind it like a wake of shining brown water. It was a hen sparrowhawk. Her back was ridged high, her curved head pecked the air. Pale upon the early gloom, flung up against it like a stranded wave, she shone with involuntary light. The yellow iris of her eye seemed to fade slowly down to red, as though it were reflecting a sunset. It burned towards me, searing through the dusk.
The hawk was never still. Her long legs trembled, her narrow toes clutched frantically at the bark. She quivered on the tines of the dead tree, like an autumn leaf before it falls. It was neither fear nor rage that made her shiver in this way. She was lifted by a dream of movement. In her mind she was still flying. The poplar of her muscles moves always in the wind of flight; it will never be calm till it is felled by death.
I took one step forward. She dived from the tree, and rose away towards the far side of the plantation, where the faint lines of light between the larches were now overgrown by dusk. She flicked the air with the splayed quills of her broad wings, as though it were too hot to touch. She flew with a phantasmal buoyancy and deftness, curving the shining snake of her flight between the distant trees. She crossed the last strands of sky; she was a dark feather laid upon the sinking sun; then she was gone.
 
 
I left the twilight of the larch plantation, and came out into the more open woodland, where the sun was still shining in the tops of the tallest trees. Some blackbirds were singing, others were scolding before going to roost. The shadow of night’s silence was slowly eclipsing the sounds of the day. A chaffinch called at the edge of the wood, and then a mistle thrush. The bracken moved in the wind and pecked lightly at my hands. A male sparrowhawk glided softly up from the downs to the south, like an arrow of feathery dusk drifting under the surface of the light. He rose to perch in an oak. As he landed, his long tail – barred with brown and white – spread out into a triangle of brown mist, then closed suddenly to grey. A frail cry, which seemed to trail up from the roots of the tree, pierced the resumed singing of the blackbirds: ‘keer, keer, keer, keer’: a bleating, forlorn shape of a sound. He saw me watching him, and he hopped along the branch till he was hidden by the bole of the tree. He was hidden, yet I could feel him trembling there. I could imagine his small lizard-like head pouncing forward and listening to the inimical stillness of the grey bark, while his gloom-piercing eyes spiralled out their rings of yellow fire into the ambush of the leaves.
After a minute of fear had slowly diminished him, the hawk went deeper into the wood. The trees were far below the sunlight now, and he could fly higher. He twisted silently away between the dark tree-tops, and perched on the dead branch of an oak, just out of sight. I had to move an inch or two to see him plainly. At once he was flying again. The human eye had scorched him. He retreated, flinging rapidly away like a small brown cloak thrown forward by the wind. Briefly the late sun reddened the bark-colour of his back, and made golden the dim sunset of his breast. He darted into a copse of silver birches, where pale light was floating on the rising dusk. Dodging to left and right between the trees, he stabbed away from me. Very far off, I heard him call, most mournful and despondent of sounds, a fast shrill whinnying that moved erratically among the birches, rising and falling. It was muffled, as though it were being made with the bill tightly closed. It was a loud, clear sound, yet frail; ‘kee, kee, kee, kee’, endlessly repeated, varying in pitch, running up into a grasshopper-like trill, then slowing and slurring. It was nasal, beaky, coming from high and far up in the curved, narrow head of the frightened hawk. He kept out of sight, twitching backwards and forwards behind the trees, crying out his simple emotion – of fear, or of summons to his mate – like an endless frenetic song. The sound raced faster, flew madly through the wood, then fled to the south, fading and sinking away. It stopped. There was a plaintive, pleading ‘kee-u, kee-u, kee-u’, with a soft rising inflection, like a whimpered reproach. Then only the wind, endlessly drifting the call of the hawk through the dark trees.
The male sparrowhawk lives very close to the edge of things. He is a primitive, an aboriginal among birds, savage in killing because his power is small. His long legs look thin and fragile, like stems of amber. He snatches his prey, bears it down, grips it insanely as though he fears its life will swell up in his foot, will swell up and burst and overwhelm him. He roosts late, in high dark trees, floating to his perch at dusk. The wind frightens him, as it moves the leaves across his eyes. He knows the tread of a man, and flies from it before he sees his fear. Every movement of the wood reaches out and touches him with a long finger. The need to serve the nest, to bring food for his mate and for the young birds, can make him less timid for a time. But unmated, or when nesting is over, he reverts to what he was: a wild-leaping gazelle of the air, whose thin yellow eyes pierce all shadow, whom all steps tread upon, whom all sounds deafen, whom all sights dazzle; the flying nerve of the wood.
 
 
The downland grass was already grey, and the sky was heavy with the rain-clouds that were moving up from the south. The wood sank into night. The white hawthorn blossom seemed to drift down through the twilight, descending slowly through the darkness of the trees. One by one the calls of the stone curlews rose in the long valleys of the downs, like fossil voices released from the strata of the chalk. Their dry exhalations remained suspended in the air above, so that the renewed calls rose always into the same ancient outline, shaping upon the darkness a stonehenge of haunting sound. A short-eared owl flew past, beating softly over the grass, turning its head to watch me with wondering, moonlit eyes.
 
 
I entered the wood again, and went down towards the road. The warm night dampened into rain that slowly became colder and straighter. I scrambled and slithered along the broad ride. The wet trees were heavy and steep with darkness, and the ground seemed more uneven than it had been earlier. I heard a bird singing in the open woodland to the west, and I stopped to listen. It was a wood lark. I plunged into the bracken, and blundered towards the distant sound. The bracken was as wet as an overgrown pond. Wet bushes loomed, and slashed, and went past. The ground began to rise. The lark was singing above a slope where there were few large trees and many open spaces. It circled above me, singing in the cold and drenching rain. The night breathed down upon my upturned face. I felt that the heavy splashes of the rain should sparkle, but there were black. In wide circles, rising and falling, the wood lark drifted and sang. The cold dissolution of the air was exhilarating. All around me was a blackness of rustling leaves that smelt of the sea.
The wood lark’s song is less abandoned and more melancholy-sounding than the skylark’s. Each new cadence is elaborated from the one that went before. The bird seems to ponder each phrase before shaping it into song. He sings it, lets it fall, recovers it, lets it fall, then lets it lie where it fell.
For twenty minutes I stood beneath the circling lark. He did not come down, nor was there any break in his song. There was no point in my staring up into the darkness, but I always did so, as though seeking a sudden transparency. It was a wonder to me that so small a fragment of life could fly in complete darkness, and in heavy rain, breathing so carefully, skilfully, out into nothing, for nothing, to nothing, but to be itself. When I was down in the wet road, deep down in the hollow of the night, I could still hear the song of the wood lark fading upwards like a ring of stars in the distant wood that seemed so far above me.
The hill slopes steeply down through the green woodland mist, the uncertain haze of spring. The air above seems slowly to descend. A footpath gleams and dwindles between plantations of dense fir, dark reluctant trees in sombre strata, where poplars faintly shine. The pale coppery-yellow poplar leaves are still uncurling. Under the soft grey of the early morning clouds, they shine with their own perpetual sunlight. They are large enough now to flutter vaguely in the rising breeze, moving on their flattened stalks like bronze-coloured butterflies.
The path sinks through woods of twisted oak and thin silver birches. The green light of the leaves is tentative. A cuckoo calls, submerged in summer warmth. A brown stain in the path ahead becomes a dead long-eared bat. It has the mysterious, secret look of recent death, as though it were a discarded chrysalis. The tender parchment wings of its membraned hands have crumpled, shrivelled up like burnt paper. The long soft-furred ears are still erect and listening, but the small face is strangely blurred and incomplete, blunted and empty among the fallen leaves. In my hand the bat is weightless, frailer than a bird, less than a mouse. It is fragmentary, like something drifted down through time from a forgotten way of life.
Robins sing, and occasionally the air glitters with the brilliant trill of a wren. A wood ants’ nest rises among the bowed white heads of the windflowers. It is a shining dark-brown pyramid, two feet high, three feet across. It ferments, hisses quietly like the distant steam-sound of the sea upon shingle. The ants swarm over the dead leaves and the bracken. They move up into the trees and along the branches, out to the smallest twigs. There is something volcanic about these big ants’ nests. They erupt in a slow brown lava. One expects to see them kindle into a gape of hoarse red flame. The dark and many-jointed mass of ants shines with an obscene cellular life. It festers. I edge forward to look closer, then shift abruptly back. It has the malignancy of a compound eye. I throw a twig, an offering into the writhing cauldron. It bubbles, seethes higher, subsides. The twig has gone. It has been absorbed, sucked down. I walk quickly away from this dryly crepitating brain of ants, so endlessly signalling, making, and becoming.
 
 
Ten jays chase one another through the wood, dipping and bowing between the mossy oak branches. Their blunt wings row heavily from tree to tree. Their high streaked foreheads give them a puzzled, quizzical look. All birds wear false heads, feathered domes masking the mind beneath, ritual faces nodding on the stick of the spine. The jays’ demented calls tear at the silence, destroying the robin’s delicate song.
The cuckoo calls again in the reassembled air. Walls of red brick, mellowed by golden lichen, enclose a forgotten garden, the hush of an empty house. The white blossom of a pear tree clouds above the wall, burning white on the blue of the sky. Bullfinches call within, softly, made distant and exotic by the pored redness of the wall. I can imagine the cock-bird’s breast, brick-red, clean and unstained and softly pure. This seems to be the heart of the wood. The light is deeper here, and there is a feeling of imminent revelation. But it is illusory. Far down among the trees, spaces appear between the misty leaves, like wisps of curling smoke. The path widens, and suddenly ends; the grey smoke thins away; the spaces become gaps of grass and sky where the sun is shining. The distant gorse blossom floats like a yellow haze on the hot blue swell of the gorse. There is a smell of grass. Abrupt slopes and deep gulleys rise and fall between clumps of bushes, copses, and small woods. Beyond them is the shining eastern sky and the sea-haze of other hills.
Swallows curve and sweep low over the mown grass, their blue tangents darting away. Their smooth flight is really an endless glide. The steady wing-beats seem too slow, never catching up with the speed of the bird. Almost an afterthought, they appear to have no power of propulsion, touching the air lightly, like oars waving idly over green water. It is a luminous, silken flight: the blue and purple back of the swallow swooping forward through the surface of the air, the air rushing away green and fresh behind the flowing motion of the bird.
Beneath the intense glow of the warm yellow blossom, the gorse bushes conceal caves of shadow, dusty airless places where rabbits live and man cannot penetrate. The thick colourless stems are fibrous, like the legs of owls. The choking darkness is full of dust and night, very remote from the galaxies of blossom that smoulder above.
 
 
The morning brightens slowly as the wind freshens. There is less haze. The air is warm with the songs of distant blackbirds. A willow warbler drops down into the gorse, leaving a birch-twig trembling. Its dark-shining eye scans the bushes above. It leaps from spray to spray, peering intently, snapping up small insects with its narrow bill. This is its life, this tireless fluttering and falling, the effortless, jaunty song forgotten as soon as uttered, the leaf-shadows moving endlessly over the indifferent face.
Two long-tailed tits are carrying feathers and grass to their nest in the gorse. One has a seed-head of burdock embedded in the feathers of its breast. Small birds are so vulnerable to everything that grips. A green woodpecker calls, close, but hidden; a sunlit voice muffled in a cloud of shade. The haze lightens, revealing the high air, the emptiness. The grass smells stronger as the dew dries. To the east, the land falls away, ends suddenly in unseen water; then it rises, changed, into far hills, remote and foreign, which become familiar as they harden in the strengthening light.
Many birds are feeding in the grass. Starlings run and probe, thrushes and blackbirds bound across. The big, pale mistle thrushes stand still and rigid; then they advance with great frog-like leaps. If I lie down, eye on a level with the grass, the mistle thrushes spring up tall and gaunt, hiding trees, towering above the jungle growth, terrifying as dinosaurs against the sky. This place is like a clearing in a primeval forest. There is a primitive feeling of security, as though one were out of reach of the suddenly-flung spear, of the stunning leap from darkness. The procreant spring air is soft and warm. At a distance, where fans of sunlight slant down from breaking clouds, the air seems to glitter in fiery grains.
Swallows call sharply, thrushes scatter. Long wings thresh in dark curves above the gorse as a hawk rushes past in pursuit of a swallow. It was a hobby, a hawk with a slender body, thin tapering tail, and narrow pointed wings that slash the air. It was diffuse, whirling, fragmented by speed. I recall a yellow-ringed eye, a white hawk-profile marked with black, a flicker of grey or dark-blue wings. Then it was smaller, whole again, swallow-coloured, flitting low above the field, raising spurts of dead grass that drifted slowly down. Suddenly the two birds tower up together into the southern sky, the swallow looking like a small replica of the hobby. They vanish in the sun.
The hobby is a rare summer migrant. It is mainly a hawk of the sandy country, of the heathland, as the merlin is of the moors. It often nests in a Scots pine. Its back is the colour of pine-needles, its fox-red flanks are like the pine bark. It is midway between a merlin and a peregrine in size, with longer wings and a more attenuated look. It preys largely upon insects and insect-eating birds: dragonflies, grasshoppers, beetles, moths, butterflies, and bees, are among the insects taken; swallows, martins, and swifts, among the birds.
The dream of the forest clearing has flown into the wood. The thrushes have gone, the starlings scatter. Slowly the fields resume their peace, or a different peace, for now there is a wariness, a new alertness. The quiet morning cannot be restored.
Beside the hedge I find a dead snake, an adder. Its head has been crushed. It lies curled up beneath a bush, where it was flung aside as something that could do no further harm. It has virtue now, being dead. It is hard to believe that this dry coil of piped skin contains a heart’s red tentacles, the convoluted vine of blood, the shattered temples of white bone through which the sun is shining. It is coiled like a hangman’s noose.
 
 
Above a small stream that is hidden by a golden dazzle of marsh-marigolds, there are two small woods; one of pine, one of larch. I sit at the edge of the pine wood and listen to the trees. The tall pines move in the wind, and bend; their branches heave. Then from deep inside the wood, moving slowly out towards the edge and rising in volume, there comes the long, hollow, booming sigh of the wind, like a distant train emerging from a tunnel. The sound hisses in the outward branches, and washes away to a sea-shell whisper. The afternoon light is pure and shadowless, the sky is hidden by high cloud. Small birds sing in the thickness of the wood. It is good to have trees at one’s back, to feel that everything that does not matter is on the far side of the trees.
As the sky clears, birds sing louder and more often, silvering coldly the warm and resinous dark of the pine wood. A kestrel soars, gliding over the smooth sky, brown and fox-coloured in the sun. A fox comes out of the wood, flows across the grass, stops, looks round, then runs back to the trees. It is a lean, dark fox, a stained and luminous vein of red quivering away through the green bracken.
At the side of the wood there is a hawthorn hedge. The thousands of small leaves are scalloped ovals of polished, sun-reflecting green. They shine, as though each curved palm held a spark of brilliant water. They look so diamond-hard, yet they are soft and papery to the touch. The blossom of a gean whitens the air above; the fallen blossom beneath the tree is like a circle of white shadow. To the east, the tumbling decline and the diminishing rounds of tree-tops are fading from green to grey, and the misty turrets of the distant town rise slowly yet gain no height above the long sunlight of the estuary.
Within the hawthorn hedge a lesser whitethroat is singing. For ten minutes I keep pace with him, moving backwards and forwards along the thick hedge. He flits among the leaves, feeding on small insects. He is seldom visible, and never comes out into the open. He sings loudly, regularly, a harsh brief jingle of notes followed by an emphatic four-note trill. Occasionally he changes to a loud, melodious warble, like the song of a blackcap. Between these louder songs I sometimes hear a faint sub-song. It is a strange, faraway sound, as though the bird were talking very softly to himself, breathing and sighing out a rambling incoherent whisper of song. When he is more than a yard away, the sound is quite inaudible. Urgent, rushing, endless, it is like the fretting of twigs in the wind, like the faint scratching whimper of a hibernating dormouse. I put my ear close to the singing bird, and he is not afraid. Six inches away from me, behind the bright leaves, the song is no louder than before. It is a sad, disturbing sound, like the soft and breathless plea of something that has been shut out.
 
 
I cross the hill towards the larch wood. A hare crouches upon the horizon, then runs down into the sky. The wood stands high above the valley of the stream. A tree pipit stops singing as I approach. He is perched on a larch-twig at the edge of the wood. He has a startled and uneasy look, as though he were unaccustomed to the light, a migrant from a time remote. Then his appearance alters, becomes intent and purposeful, as he gazes upward. He launches himself from the bending twig, and flies steeply up, rising silently, deliberately, and without haste. He turns at the top of his hundred-foot slant, faces towards the wood, and sings as he slowly descends to the exact point of his departure. He drifts down with his wings and tail spread wide and his legs dangling loosely beneath him. His loud, cadenced song sinks down. But gradually it lingers behind, so that when he alights on the twig he left a minute before, the last phrase of his song seems to be still suspended in the air above.
The green of the fields is soon lost in the marine yellow light of the larches. A peacock butterfly wavers between the trees, like a brown leaf with eyes of dark purple velvet. The dead bracken has a living warmth. There is a sudden fire-light of wings. A redstart perches in a larch, shining through a moving lace of shadows. Below the pale grey crown, the redstart’s forehead is a slash of pipe-clay white gleaming like paint laid on thickly with a palette-knife; the cheeks and throat are a deep cindery black, the chest a segment of rich orange, the belly a clear white like the white of an egg; the back is grey, the tail a copper gleam. When the redstart twists out after insects, dipping and swerving from his perch, the orange-tinted wings and tail open and flash in the sun like flame-reflecting sprays of water. He sings, and feeds, choosing high perches, moving round the edge of his territory, rapt in a priestly ritual, alone in the quiet wood. One envies the perfect solitariness of a bird. Occasionally he flies down to a dead birch, and dips his head forward into cavities between the bark and the bole, spreading his tail against the silver scales of the tree, like the fins of a goldfish. He is finding nest-sites, and showing them to his mate.
In the middle of the wood, the bracken is beaten down, and there is a hole in the dry earth that looks like an empty eye-socket. Something gleams there for a moment, and then goes out. There is a noise in the bracken behind me, like a blackbird raking through dead leaves with its bill. The noise comes nearer, rising up the slope. It is louder now. It is a human sound, a crawling sound. A badger comes into sight, backing laboriously up the hill towards me. It rises in short jerks, dragging a bundle of dead bracken between its bowed forelegs. When it is only a yard away from me, it suddenly stops. There is a long pause. Then the narrow, triangular, tunnelling head turns slowly round, as though fearful of what it will find. The small eyes shine in the black stripes that cross the staring whiteness of the face. Divested of darkness, the head has an appallingly vulnerable look. It is as though the badger had suddenly fallen through night’s cold surface into the blaze of day. It leaves its bundle of new bedding and runs heavily down into the hold, shaking the ground with its wildly plunging feet.
Badgers are always noisy if they feel they are safe. They blunder and crash through the bracken. Man is their only enemy. Where a wire fence crosses their path to the stream, they have beaten it down by falling on to it with their heavy bodies. Each evening, when they go to the stream to drink, they push the fence farther and farther down. People follow this path. They pass through the gap the badgers have made.
On the far side of the wood, a goldcrest sings among the larches, hidden in the high green light. He hops and flutters quickly along branches, singing from bare dark twigs. It is a thin song, but vehement, emphatic, ending with a flourish. Occasionally his shrill call-note pierces down, a sound very close to the silence. The larch wood holds the wind gently persuasively, the high branches sifting it with a sound like the hiss of falling sand. The hot sun, and the big white clouds returning, are far beyond the tree-tops. The light under the trees is green and yellow, like the bending reflections of trees and sunlight in green water. Two swifts, the first of the year, hawk for insects in the upper sky. One rushes down at the other; then they sweep upward together in a rising arc, and fling themselves apart. Their distant screaming trails across the blue. A fox walks past, reddening the shadows. Then all is still; and there are only the nets of sunlight drifting over the dry bracken, and the green bracken growing, and the soft sifting, the endless sifting, of the wind in the feathery larch leaves.
A kestrel circles above the trees, gliding and fluttering. It soars higher, twining around the smooth column of the rising air. Above the dark crescents of the swifts it dwindles, feeding upon insects, swerving and half-hovering to catch them in its talons. Swallows rise to mob it; gently it rocks itself up beyond their reach. It floats up till the sky heals over it. It descends, and is visible for a moment, but it rises again to blue. Under and over the blue dust of the air it gleams and vanishes. Then suddenly it turns entirely into light, and is seen no more. I stay in the larch wood, drowsy and at peace, while the quiet afternoon subsides into the song-lit April evening.
 
 
Loud whistling calls, shrill and explosive, begin in the western sky and come nearer, till they are overhead, and passing quickly to the east. These harsh sounds are so abrupt and penetrating that for a long time I do not look high enough for the birds that are making them. Eventually I find six hawfinches, small, bulky birds with thick necks and short tails, bounding rapidly away into the wind till the blue haze muffles their piercing ‘zeenk-zik’.
The evening light sinks slowly down to gold. The air is heavy with the last warmth of the sun. But winter rises in the hollows, like a shining mist. The woodpigeons begin to come back to the woods to roost, diving down through fathoms of sunlight to settle in the bare oaks. They sidle along the branches, glowing grey and white and mauve, sun-breasted against the night of the trees.
The strong upward glow of the grass, and the downward shining of the vivid larches, reflect green light on to the polished birch-bark. My feet crisp in the dead bracken as I walk towards the edge of the wood. Bird-song ends in questioning silence. A shadow sinks from a larch. The thin legs of a sparrowhawk gleam like yellow fangs, under long tail, blunt wings; then they close up into shadow. Softly the hawk draws away over the short grass, skims low, moves into the sun but does not shine, is lost in the long shadows hanging from the pine wood.
The open land between the woods is now dark and intimate. There is a feeling of enclosure, a shutting-off of sky, a softness of wood-dusk; just as the coastal hinterland is haunted and arched over by the far-reaching glare of the sea. I cross to the pine wood, passing through layers of cold light. The sky is cold, mauve-rimmed, yellowing towards sunset. The night air is rising, but among the trees there is warmth and stillness. The wind does not enter.
Inside the wood, the time is an hour later. Dark pines enclose me in a sudden swoop of dusk. The air smells sweet. It seems to move upon an inward breath. All is quiet, yet something is withheld. Robins and willow warblers sing in the brightness of the outer trees. A pheasant crashes upward, drilling a way through the soft branches, snapping off dead twigs, leaving the branches softly waving. The wood seems hollow as the light sinks down. Grass shines white in dark shadow. It gleams like water at the narrow end of rides. The luminous sky beyond shines and whitens in the earlier time. There is a smell of summer under the fragrance of spring. Slowly I walk towards the outer light. A brown wave spreads widens to fanning wings. I stop. A tree in front of me grows higher by a foot. The yellow eyes of the sparrowhawk pulse into the gloom. The air is still. The wood seems to fill with the mill-wheel sound of our blood. We lean forward upon the silence that divides us. Then part of the tree moves back, diminishes. Dusk flies into dusk. Birds call in the fading outer light. The hawk has gone.
 
 
I take the steep path to the west, between the dim, contorted oaks. The windflowers are closed now, and the wood is grey. A weasel runs silently through the bracken. It burns, like a reddish-brown flame, along the fuse of the scent it follows. A few robins and thrushes still sing in their shrinking territories. Two kestrels fly from tree to tree. They settle in a big oak, ethereal against the eastern sky. The branches frail away to twigs, the twigs to brown light. The kestrels’ bell-like, tremulous calling frets in the pearl of the sky, a sound of high innocence dwindling from brutish beaks. The tree hides the arrogance of hawk-shape, is itself half-hidden in grey air.
Little owls begin to call, their soft curlew-voices rising in pathos from the smoke of the trees. The air is very cold. There is only the look of warmth upon the early leaves. I enter the forgotten garden, now quite rank and wild with dusk. The white pear tree stands in mysterious stillness. I have to touch and smell the white blossom before I can believe in the spring. As though released, the white shape of a barn owl floats from the ruined house. Its long, barbaric shriek is drawn out and flung upwards to shine among the early stars.
