There is a smell of change in the still air. The dense summer darkness is fading from the sky. The white glint of water spreads out like a slow wave. It reaches the far bank. The grey river mist rises from the hidden grass, haunts up into the shapes of trees. A moorhen calls. I hear the splash of a water vole, the muffled voice of a late owl, the distant song of a blackbird. The horns of cattle emerge from the mist. The boat moves forward into the cold and shrivelled scent of the wet hay. The smell of the morning river glides slowly back from the blades of the damp oars.
The mist shines with the silver light of the sharp-leaved willows. Between the trees there are sudden distances, spaces of air and mist, where poplars and hawthorns hover and sink down. A net of branches seems to impede the ascension of the sun’s pale circle. Sedge warblers and whitethroats sing in the riverside bushes. Reeds move harshly in the rising breeze. The sun glows, and the first faint shadows darken the glistening fields with the fallen shapes of night.
 
 
The boat ripples through the unfamiliar light of the water. Nettles and willow-herb slide past on either side. The sun has kindled the smell of meadowsweet. There is a slow growth of sound: bird-song, the splashing of fish, the rustling of poplar leaves. A yellow wagtail runs through the grass at the top of the bank. Its dazzling daffodil colour is reflected in the wet grass, and in the river beneath, as it peers over the edge.
The prismatic gleam of a kingfisher rises from the surface of the water to perch on an overhanging willow branch. The cobalt and emerald sheen of its plumage seems to fade when it withdraws from the brilliant river light. Slowly it becomes more difficult to see, merging with the green of the leaves and the mossy bark. The blades of its bill rest harmlessly in the dull orange feathers of its chest. Its closed wings reach almost to the tip of its stumpy tail, giving it a neat, compact shape, ornamental and disarming. But the restless eyes watch the dark olive river. The kingfisher is always ready to fall, to seize a fish from the sudden blue cloud of the broken water. It flies as the boat approaches, flashing silver-blue and green and red through the stripes of dusk and sunlight, glittering like the auroral dew. It hovers momentarily above the shallows, but it does not strike.
Where the kingfisher hovered, five roach are swimming very slowly against the current so that they remain stationary. They are two feet down, watching the sunlit surface. Occasionally a fish rises without haste, opening its mouth slowly and closing it quickly upon the air at the surface with a just audible smacking sound. They are catching insects. They look very long and thin, pink-lipped, with silver scales and orange fins. Their tails wave constantly from side to side as they keep their positions in the current. Suddenly they dive vertically downwards with the flurry of fins. A water vole is swimming across the river, holding a dock leaf between its teeth. Its head is held well up, so that the leaf stays dry. It lands upon mud, and runs into the rushes.
A minute later the vole reappears, and swims back to the other bank. It is a sleek brown shape, misty and long in the water. Its small eyes, close together near the top of its head, shine with reflected sunlight as they watch the boat. Its tail is a straight pale line. It moves quickly, easily, furrowing the surface. It runs into a tunnel in the overhanging bank, but emerges at once and begins to eat grass. The lower half of its body is immersed in the river. Gradually it climbs the steep slope of grass, standing up on its back legs till it is almost vertical. Its small white fore-feet pull the blades of grass towards its teeth. It nibbles and chews rapidly, nose twitching, thick white tail hanging limply down. Its long fur gleams with a soft grey bloom of moisture, a delicate light that is watery blue in the sun, as though its bulky body were enclosed in a bubble of mist. The wind-ruffled fur is dun-coloured, neutral in tone. It could be green or grey or brown, elusive as muddy water. On either side of the nose there are tawny markings, like rust. The eyes are blue-grey, filmy and bright, but feeble, like the eyes of an elderly man. When the boat goes by, the vole drops into the river and swims towards its tunnel. The sun and the air are dangerous, only water and darkness are safe.
Sand martins rise endlessly over the drying hayfields, descending occasionally to make low, brief swoops at the surface of the river. They are small, pale brown birds, curiously fish-like. Their brown colouring has a tint of sepia. The primary feathers of their wings are a darker brown, long and flexible. They fly above the fields, rising gradually to two hundred feet; then they rush wildly down to skim the rippling water. Swallows also fly low to the river. They are slower than the sand martins, but more graceful. Their dark gliding streams the green light with fading lines of purple.
 
 
The morning passes imperceptibly. The monotony of land-time is lost in the boat’s slow forward movement, in the steady rhythm of the oars, in the flowing back of the banks on either side, in the rise and fall of the fields. The time of the river has no measurable progression. It surges and slackens and sinks down with the songs of the birds and the sounds of the trees. Intention wavers, and purposes cloud. Time is the wings of the heron, the call of the unseen plover, the wind in the harp of the reeds.
 
 
Slowly the river widens, the banks recede and dip down. There is more land, more water. A lake appears in the distance ahead, glowing with fiery light. But soon I can see that it is not a lake. It is a larger river, alarming in its huge, disdainful breadth, its cold depth and expansiveness of air. I turn the boat into this new, indifferent world, and row upstream, keeping close to the southern bank. Large white clouds shine upon the water. They seem to sink, and change their shape completely, before they drift beneath the fields. Looking up, I am almost surprised to see them still moving northward through the burning heat of the sky.
The musical trill of a little grebe ascends from the sheltering reeds. There is a yellow gleam of irises among the pink blossoms of the flowering rush. The south wind is languished by the warm smell of the white clover, stronger now than the fume of the hay. The black crest of a heron rises from the tall grass of the towpath. The kinked white neck appears. The heron stalks stiffly to the water’s edge, settles the dark spiders of its feet into the mud, stands with negligent bill and gold-ringed eye intent. I pass other herons, spaced out in gaps of reed, like human fishermen. The rusting spears of their reflections lie deep in the shining water.
Where the current is slow, behind a fallen tree, a green and amber pike is lurking. His mottled skin seems to ripple with the striped yellow sunlight of the water. Above him, near the surface, bleak scurry and flash like submerged silver swallows. The beaked pike is a Silurian god, down there in the lowest stratum of the river. When he rises to attack, he dredges darkness up into the light. Within a daggered black sun of pain a bleak is seized. Fish scatter outwards like a corona of bright rays.
 
 
The water is warm now; the midday heat is like a mist upon the land. Emperor dragonflies twitch and turn above the reeds, darting in pursuit of their prey. The hawthorns that grow along the bank are shadowed by swarms of insects. From the slope of the distant wood, a hobby rises slowly and circles down wind. It swoops to the river, and dashes low across the surface. The tips of its sharp wings raise a brief flicker of shining spray. It jerks wildly from side to side, swerving, leaping, rebounding. It is trying to catch dragonflies, but I cannot see if it succeeds. The hobby wheels, and slashes the air with an outstretched leg and clutching foot; the dragonflies shine and flash in the sun. Presumably they are trying to escape, watching for the plunge of the falcon, their turreted heads swivelling and gleaming. The hobby is incredibly agile, but it cannot turn quickly enough. It relies on the fast direct rush and slash, wings vibrating in a seizure of speed. Suddenly it rises, and flies back to the wood, moving with leisured wing-beats and long glides. The dragonflies resume their hunting.
The boat moves slowly through the clouded summer heat. The river bends to the south, and the hillside wood is closer. It rises to a dark, serrated crest of pines. The oaks and chestnuts of the lower slopes are now recognisable as individual trees, but the pines do not come any nearer. They keep their sombre remoteness, their suggestion of a different country, of secrets, of some hidden death that will not be revealed. I tether the boat to an overhanging hawthorn, and clamber up on to the bank. The land seems to be tilted and infirm after the buoyant solidity of the water life.
 
 
The path to the wood is circuitous, skirting large fields of wheat and barley. The wheat is brownish-yellow, glowing with a rich russet light. The barley is whiter, blonde, with strands of green at the base of the stalks. Each stalk sways over at a different angle as the breeze moves them apart, so that the whole field breathes open and seals again with an endless ocean swell. A goldfinch flies above the fields, and the yellow colour of its wingbars seems to change suddenly to match the varying colours of the corn.
The path is covered with the white floss of the seeding willows and the fallen blossom of the elder. The leaves of the hawthorn hedge look arid and autumnal. A corn bunting sings from a dead oak. I stop beneath, but he does not fly. His tail is bent under and forward into a grotesque shape as he balances in the breeze. His bill opens very wide, but closes abruptly as the first brief stutter of the song comes out. Then it opens wider still, and stays open, with the red gape shining in the sun, while the final emphatic jingle of notes dries away into the heavy air. His wings droop and quiver as he sings. He has an intense, dedicated look as he repeats his song at frequent and regular intervals, turning his head constantly from side to side. It is a demanding ritual, to which he gives all his strength and power of concentration. A singing bird seems to be possessed by an irresistible force. The sound emitted can – to our ears – be joyful, sad, or merely dull and irritating. But to the bird the sound may be of little importance. It may be the place of utterance, and the power and frequency of the song, which matter more to him.
A yellowhammer sings from an oak a hundred yards away. The two bunting songs, so parched and dry, seem to be perfectly expressive of the heat, the glare, the dusty sunlight. Here, it is July; in the middle distance there is a September haze; at the horizon a dim November mist.
 
 
The wood trembles in the heat. All is ripe and silent. A skylark sings above, but it seems to be on the far side of a silence that is clear and solid in the heat of the sun. A cool breath comes from the trees. Lakes of rosebay willow-herb float on green light. The creamy meadowsweet smells thick and stifling. Swallows swoop down to sip from the still water of a pond. Linnets and goldfinches drink at the water’s edge.
Inside the wood, the heat is muted and withdrawn. The shade of the trees is like dark, airless sunlight. I go uphill, forcing a pathway through bracken and willow-herb. Calm foxgloves rise in serenity above the dusty nettles. The spired blossom of the Spanish chestnuts smells like meadowsweet, like the sour sweetness of new bread. To describe a wood in detail is to obscure its identity. It is essentially a field of light overgrown by trees. It is not the trees themselves that make a wood, but the shape and disposition of the remaining light, of the sky that descends between the trees. This wood seems to have no dimension. Its boundaries recede to an infinite distance, moving out into the heat of the sun, drifting away with the drowsy cooing of woodpigeons and the clouded voices of turtle doves. A chiffchaff sings, high and remote in the pines. Nothing is close, or clear. At the foot of a pine I see the wings of a swift and a swallow, the kills of a hobby. But of the hawks themselves there is no sign. I cannot find their nest. I go down through the wood, out into the heat again, and back to the river.
 
 
The jarring hardness of the land is left behind. The boat moves smoothly over the water’s cooling sky. The oars splash, and the spray glitters. The shining dace melt down into darkness. Between the tall rain of the leaf-shimmering Lombardy poplars I can smell the warm hay. It is the smell of summer, a harvest of fallen sunlight. The morning clouds have passed to the north, and the afternoon is a silent haze of heat.
Suddenly I hear the harsh grating call of a common tern. A deep and graceful white waving of wings is following the course of the river. The tern flies closer, becomes a warmth of shining white. Black head, red bill, point downwards, looking alert and menacing. Dark eyes watch the water moving back beneath them. The gentle wing-beat hastens, and becomes a hover, a quicker, more incisive fanning. The forked tail spreads out into a thin white membrane. Against the sun, the wings look almost transparent, like shapes of canvas made taut and expressive by the wind. The wings beat faster, blurring to grey. Then they close abruptly, and slide down towards the water. I see a sharp sliver of red pointing below white. The tern plunges, slicing the water with a great gulping splash. I half-expect to see a cloud of steam hiss upward from the white-hot blade. A spun-glass web of foam shatters into spray and spatters down upon the surface that has already healed beneath it. The tern flies high, swallowing his fish.
The boat passes under a dark red bridge where many house martins are flying to and from their hanging nests. Their blue backs are invisible in the gloom; their white rumps rise and fall upon the flowing air like tiny flecks of foam. The arch of the bridge is a cave of hollow sound, a twittering coldness carved from the heat of the day. The sun strikes down with renewed strength as the boat emerges.
The air is very still now, but the sailing swans give the impression of a breeze. A sedge warbler sings in a motionless aspen. It is the only sound. The purple loosestrife smoulders in the heat. High above, where immense white clouds are forming, the dark fang of a hobby falls and rises in pursuit of a house martin. It is all so far off, so remote in the glare of the sky, that I have no feeling of excitement, no sense of wonder at the power and speed of the hawk’s flight as it disappears into the haze.
 
 
I turn the boat into a narrow backwater that leads to a weir. Four swifts fly low overhead, one behind the other, screaming as they whip past, their curved wings lashing and jerking. Their shrill calls tingle through the nerves. The sun makes them look brown, shows up their white throats. Their bent shapes seem to whang away from the resistance of the air, as though they were tensile and springy, like crescents of thin black metal.
The quiet stream is heavy with sleeping grebes, moorhens, and duck. It is as though the stillness of night had been suddenly lifted into the hot pallor of the day. A grass snake parts the water into a long ripple as it swims across from the other bank. Its head is held rigidly up above the surface, but the whole length of its body is submerged, waving from side to side with a sinuous, horizontal undulation. It seems always to be sinking but it does not sink. It comes quickly towards the boat, breathing at regular intervals, with its forked tongue flicking in and out for several seconds at a time, like barbs of small dull flame. I move the oars, and it stops at once, hanging motionless in the water, trailing down into the deep green and yellow light. It stays like that for at least a minute, with its head protruding and its eyes watching me, while its body floats down below the surface as though it were already dead. Then it turns, and swims back to the bank, waving easily away into the shadows. Watching the grass snake moving so smoothly through the water, I had felt cooler, I had sloughed off the hot skin of the mottled sunlight. Now the sun resumes its power.
I moor the boat, and walk along the bank till I come to the white roar of the weir. The stream is smooth and still above the fall. The green banks, overhung with grass, darken the water with a brown reflection. Bands of light are crossed by the reflected boles of the cricket-bat willows. There is no premonition of change in this serene and glossy surface. The still reflections break suddenly where the fall begins. It is a transformation; another element supervenes, contiguous but unrelated. The dark water plunges twenty feet to become the white foam beneath. It has the sculptured solidity of endless movement. The weir rages with the translated rain of spring. There is a cold, iron smell, sinister and thrilling, of water exultant. The fall glares whiter when the sun sinks beneath the pensive water-lily clouds. The crystalline ropes of foam pour down over dim green stone into a white darkness that rushes away to the east to gradually become slow and sunlit again before it rejoins the river. The curved hieroglyphs of the thrown foam clash and curl away, luminous and evanescent, like paintings seen by fading light on the wall of a cave.
 
 
The river is deep with cumulus as I row slowly east again. Cattle are sleeping in water meadows where redshanks call. A turtle dove drinks from a cattle-trough. Nothing shines here, but the trees to the south are sharp against white thunder-heads of cloud. A dark bird swoops low over dark-shaded water. It is a black tern in summer plumage. It comes closer, and I can see the deep narcotic black of its head and breast and the heavy grey of its back. Flying fast, undulating over the shadowed water, swinging its wings with a relaxed and even rhythm, it sweeps down to meet its dark reflection rising and gathers insects from the unbroken smoothness of the surface. Poising, idling upon air, then darting down, it curves away from me and goes steadily upstream. Dark head, dark bill, dark eye; the eye alone is bright, glittering like a gem of coal. The black tern draws a cooling line through the dry metallic heat. It passes like the first cool flake of a breeze, and the heat can no longer be the same.
 
 
The birds are silent. There is no movement in the trees. The oars dip noisily into the still water. The seeds of distant rain spill down from dissolving blooms of cloud, and the sky to the south is grey and withered. The castellated brilliance, which had seemed perpetual, has suddenly gone. A little owl flies from a riverside willow to perch on a post in the field. Swallows swoop at it immediately, diving straight down at its head and forcing it to duck. They slash down with amazing hawk-like venom and persistence. Blackbirds and thrushes fly out from the trees to join in the mobbing. They beat their wings wildly about that squat and hated head, hovering and fluttering as though they intend to alight upon it. The owl ducks repeatedly to avoid these spiteful rushes, sinking and rising, bending at the knees with comical suddenness. At last it flies down into the grass, where it is harder to see. One blackbird goes down with it; the other birds disperse. The blackbird utters its monotonous scolding note unceasingly, but soon it begins to feed. Gradually its scolding falters and fades. It has apparently forgotten the little owl, which is only a yard away. The owl sleeps. When the sky darkens with storm-clouds, the owl wakes, and flies back to the willow. Blackbirds and thrushes fly into the hawthorns to roost, behaving as though it were dusk.
Dazzling white thunderheads are growing rapidly from the grey ridges of cloud to the south. They swirl up into huge mountains of intense marble whiteness, like frozen white foam. These clouds are so bright, and the rest of the sky so darkened over, that their vivid glare seems to pluck at my eyes. The thunder is closer now, echoing and profound, suggesting vast depths. Swifts circle high beneath the great cloud-boulders. They fall dizzily, with wings vibrating, the sky lifting beyond them like white fountains. A hobby falls with the swifts, but is suddenly hidden as the storm-clouds descend towards the river and move across the water-meadows. The distance slowly ebbs away to nothing. Tendrils of grey mist come snaking through, seething like smoke above the waving grass. Lariats of rain curl forward from the smoke, hissing and stinging. The whole sky becomes a dome of shining white that crashes open into spray with a crackling roar of thunder. The storm-clouds sweep low and unbroken across the river valley. The rain clings to the horizon like a mist, and the wide swallow-coloured river is a calm waveless hissing. It is a world sunk beneath the surface of the clouds and risen above the surface of the water, an element in which there is no real light or air but only a faint luminosity and a fragmentation of flying water. A kingfisher flashes in front of me and slants away across the meadow. I see the sudden spurt of turquoise flame and hear the high piping call. The blue kingfisher colour seems to diffuse into the wet air. It flows out into the clouded grass, then flares above it, like a fish breaking the surface of a stream. The air throbs with the whirling black shapes of the sharp-pointed swifts. Many swallows and martins are resting along the wires of a fence, their feathers matted and drab with rain. They rise abruptly with a roar of fluttering wings. A hobby flies past, dim in the driving storm, pursuing a swift. Both birds seem to move slowly forward with erratic spurts and jerks, as in a blurred and crackling silent film. They are soon hidden by the lightning and the rain.
 
 
The storm lasts for another hour. Then the clouds rise slowly, and shrink up into a dark coil above the northern skyline. The sun shines again. Birds glow in the wet trees. The air smarts with the smell of rain. The soaked hay lies in long wind-rows of fallen white cloud. The grass steams in the warm evening sun. The scent of honeysuckle moves out from the hedge, sharp and far-reaching. The fanged blossom smells no stronger than the roving fragrance. The air is cool, embalmed with hay and flowers. Blackbirds and thrushes sing. The hobby flies steadily towards the distant wood, carrying a dark and broken swift in its talons. This is now a different place from what it was two hours ago. There is no mysterious essence we can call a ‘place’. Place is change. It is motion killed by the mind, and preserved in the amber of memory.
The poplars are still. The raindrops glitter in the dishevelled flowers of the briar rose. Lapwings call from the subsiding hayfield, a remote and lonely sound. A mallard drake descends from the sky, coming down in a great whistling curve of wings, his outstretched head and neck piercing the air. At first he is a black speck; then a duck-shape; then colour begins, and I can see the primary feathers of the outstretched wings separating and the wings curving forward, cupping the air, while the red legs and feet fall away from the body and reach forward and down. The green of the head shines suddenly from black, and the purple specula bloom. The bird seems to check his swift descent, swaying as he slows into a steeper curve. It looks slow, but he is still falling very fast, still coming forward into more and more dazzling colour, as though ultimately he will crumple down into a spectrum of soft feathers at my feet. Steeper and steeper he falls, and yet more slowly. Till suddenly the river is there beneath him, shining, rising with a flash of silver light. A splash of spray is flung up as the mallard lands. The circling ripples spread endlessly outward from the still centre where the placid duck is now floating, so folded and composed, as though it had never risen into flight, had never been separated from the smooth surface of the water.
 
 
The glow of sunset fades. The shining pike of the green and yellow river-light sinks slowly down into its dusk of reeds. The long shadow of the waiting heron ebbs away. I hear the questioning whistle of an otter, and the distant wing-breath of a drumming snipe. The smell of the wet land is now as pungent and rich as the night-smell of the darkening river. A skylark flutters from the soaking grass of the field. Mist rises in every hollow and hangs in the air like an uplifted dew. It rises in the hillside woods, and flows out of them in glistening streams. The lark sings softly, and then sinks to rest. Dusk breathes from the drowned hair of the severed grass.
Smoke drifts above a line of oaks near the river. It rises from the black trees, and becomes grey against the yellowing sky. When I move nearer, I see that it is not smoke but insects, gnats, the small hand-flourishers, millions of them dancing together in dense, dark ectoplasm. They are wafted higher by the slightest breeze, undulating upwards in long grey drifting plumes. Swallows and swifts are feeding upon the thicker swarms, close to the leaves. The grey clouds of insects thin out to a fine rain. They spiral and twist apart, forming small whirlwinds. Sometimes they sail very high, as though released, loosened completely from the tethering trees. The sky is constellated with them. It is a receding universe of gnats.
The strange dance of the gnats has ended, and the sky darkens to a deep hypnotic blue. A barn owl floats silently from a hollow tree, fanning the air with soft, angelic wings. It beats slowly forward over the shine of the still river, pausing, almost hovering, its whiteness increasing, its reflection gaining depth and darkness in the shine beneath. Suddenly it folds small on to a post of grey stone, where it becomes grey, mottled with golden-brown, with the same gold lichen as the wet stone. The eyes look red-rimmed, the face curiously hard. The owl preens, then gazes around. It moves away, gleaming big and white between the pollarded willows of the field, threading between their slender crowns in the cool, damp, river dusk. There is a sudden swish upward of mallard that have been softly quacking in alarm. They spread out like the fingers of a hand, imprinted on the starred twilight.

The smooth road to the south shone in the sun with a dense violet glow. Suddenly it stopped, turned right, and plunged steeply down. A deep valley was revealed. The heat and glare of the road seemed to float forward, dissolving slowly into cool green air. Beyond the deep hollow of the valley, the long ridge of a distant forest rose across the sky like the bristling, muscular spine of a huge animal, chained by the gleaming highways.
I looked down into a vast listening of pines. They were attentive only to the air above. Towns and villages had sunk deep between the trees, dark with finality. The small copses of Spanish chestnut were creamy with blossom, whirling up from the sombre valley like meadowsweet swaying over dark water. A flowering lime tree drifted the air with a clouded honeycomb of cloying fragrance, nostalgic with the closed cells of hopes forgotten, a mirage of time lost. The brilliant green of the heart-shaped leaves was darkened by the shadows of nectar-seeking bees.
 
 
The morning slept like a snake in the unaccustomed warmth. To the east lay the dreaming heath. There is always a dry, withered smell in the heathland air. The heat above the bushes glitters like frost, a spiny furze of hovering light. The air rises into the shapes of flame. The senses are parched by a bronze glare, an acrid metallic taste.
I followed the path across the heath, passing through heather and bracken, between green birches and thick clumps of blue and yellow gorse. The sounds of the road were soon hidden and lost. Willow warblers sang among the balsam-scented birch leaves, a cool watery sound cascading down. Occasionally I heard the dry declining cadence of a meadow pipit, the remote song of a yellowhammer, or the bright fluttering of nomadic linnets. The air had a peculiar density. It was perfectly clear, and the blue sky shone above, yet there seemed to be a silent downward pressure of invisible branches. The air was inhabited, heavy with an unseen presence.
 
 
At the highest point of the heath, five Scots pines stood alone, looking remote and withdrawn. The sun was behind me, shining upon the trees. Their lower branches had been broken off many years before, leaving short, blunt curves of dead wood, dry and grey, like the petrified horns of bison. For the first twenty feet from the ground, the bole of each tree was scaly and brown; but above – up to the highest branches – it was a smooth and glowing golden-red, both gold and red, so that one could not tell which was the dominant colour. The trees did not reflect the sun so much as glow from within, as though their bark was of parchment, a membrane through which a steady flame was shining. They seemed to have their own light, absorbed from the sun, and retained. When I went past at dusk they were still shining with a strange, almost gaseous, incandescence, a reddening luminosity that only faded, and then quite suddenly, when night came, as though the colder air had frozen it away.
The tall pines rose from the heath in complete stillness, unmoved by the wind. The bark of one tree was peeling, and the eye winced from the flayed look it had. Slowly I saw, really saw and did not simply know, that these pines were living things, standing like emaciated horned animals, maned with their dark green or dull blue clusters of narrow leaves. Their deep piny smell was the smell of living beings, anchored by their roots, able to move only upward or outward as the sun ordained. They were not dead, but merely prisoners, land-captives, with the sound of the sea in their leaves.
I picked up a fallen twig. The tassels of its leaves were very cold to the touch. The trees themselves had a cold glaze, in spite of the heat of the sun, like the cold surface of an earthenware vase. The sun made all things clear, as though it might dry away even the black shadows of its own creation. The highest branches of the pines shone white, like the soft damp flesh of mushrooms. The curving branches crystallised out into the similarly-curving leaves, whirling the pale sky beyond into a deeper blue, making it come nearer.
For an hour I sat and watched the unchanging pines, watched the light ascending their tall boles and leaving their contorted branches. Bees droned in the heather and the gorse, red admiral butterflies rested in the sun. Swallows and martins fed on insects rising high above the heath. Nothing disturbed my vision of these ancient Nordic pines, herded together here like the last buffalo, living their own intense life, the slow fire that can never be seen. Cut where you will, you cannot find that flame. It can never be seen, any more than you can see the spirit, or soul, of a man.
 
 
I heard a faint drumming sound. Glancing over my shoulder I saw the dark shape of a hawk descending, and sharp wings expanding and contracting. A male hobby alighted on a dead pine branch, sinking down and becoming a surprisingly small bird. His breast was leopard-coloured, mottled with dark brown and white. His upper parts were blue-grey, the colour of a lowering thundercloud. The crown of his head, and his moustachial streaks, were black, contrasting with the dazzling whiteness of his cheeks and throat. The yellow orbital rings, and the large brown eyes they surrounded, glinted in the sun as he turned his head to watch me. He looked arid, burning-eyed, a hawk of the heat, an emanation of the hot pine bark. It was as though the dead branch had suddenly opened to show a dark nerve quivering within. He was restless, staring past me, and glancing at the sky. He leapt upward, rising steeply from the tree, his long wings lashing and twitching with fierce spasmodic power. A black flame burnt swiftly across the heath. Then it was suddenly quenched as it dived through a shining fall of martins and swallows.
 
 
Beyond the crown of pines, the path sloped down to a small stream. Woods rose on the far side, and the landscape slowly changed. The air was very still. Thousands of insects rose from the heather that hummed and crackled with life under the hot sun. The path was white and stony; the turf beside it sounded hollow to the tread. A sleeping adder lay coiled among the stones. The black zigzag markings along its back looked like a thin dark snake resting upon a larger, yellowish one. The drowsy scent of the gorse blossom seemed to shine; the burnt gorse smelt black and bitter. The dark shadows of the first small clouds fanned slow-sweeping arcs of rich maroon across the pale rose-coloured dunes of heather. The droning song of greenfinches came dryly, sleepily, from the deep green shade by the stream.
The stream was hidden beneath a dense tangle of hawthorn and briar. A strange ticking sound emerged from this impregnable zariba. It was like the churring of a very distant nightjar, but drier in timbre, and more continuous. It resembled the rapid mechanical communication of an insect. It fluctuated in volume, and seemed to waver in direction like the fluttering of a compass needle to either side of north. For five minutes this thin thread of sound endured, always about to reach the moment of cessation yet never actually ceasing. It was the soft, introspective, reeling song of a grasshopper warbler. When I went nearer, it stopped; when I retreated, it began again. It was unreal, a sound embedded deep in the silence, masked at once by the slightest tremor of a breeze in the branches. It seemed, at times, to come from within my own brain, a faint alarm-note endlessly signalling through the nerves of the ear, very close and intimate, but also infinitely far off, receding, and elusive. It was impossible to be certain when the song really ceased. Suddenly I realised that I could no longer hear it, and soon it was fading, forgotten, hard to recall. The small bird itself, olive-coloured and slender, remained in cover and was never visible. But even if I had seen it, I would still have been unable to associate that faint huskiness of sound, ascending so steadily into the summer air, with the attenuated warbler flitting and feeding in the dry, sunless world of the thorn-stems.
 
 
While I was listening for the song of the grasshopper warbler to begin again, I heard a curious alarm-call that I did not recognise. It was close to me; a harsh and sibilant impact, like a scythe being sharpened on a whetstone; ‘sheerk, sheerk, sheerk’, repeated many times. It came from a male red-backed shrike, perched high in a dead birch beside the stream. He was very alert, glancing rapidly from side to side as he watched for prey. He was like a sudden flow of cold air piercing the warm current of the summer afternoon. A small bird, hardly bigger than a chaffinch, yet predatory, rapacious, like a hawk unfrocked and diminished. Whitethroats and linnets fluttered about his head, calling with anxious fury. The shrike’s throat contracted and distended. He cast up a shining black pellet that swung beneath his bill by a thread and then dropped down into the stream. He flew off, pursued by the mob.
Ten minutes later he returned to the same perch. He scanned the sky, stared all around, watching every movement of bird or insect. He would hop up from twig to twig till he swayed at the top of the bush, spreading out his wings and tail to keep balanced. He spent most of his time in the numerous small dead birches, but occasionally he perched in thorn bushes. Once he perched high in a rustling poplar. The leaves glinted and turned in the rising wind. Among the shining brown-tinted leaves, which his colour matched so well, the shrike was hard to see. Sometimes he would be silhouetted against the brilliant deep blue of the cirrus-flecked sky, where snowy corals of cloud curled high to the north-west. Beyond the watching shrike, very small and distant, two hobbies circled slowly down wind.
Many whitethroats sang, or grated out their hard, stone-gritting alarm notes. The shrike chased a singing bird, driving it higher when it tried to descend to the bushes. But the whitethroat evaded easily, dropping into cover before the shrike could come within a yard of him. A blue tit and a yellowhammer gleamed among the hawthorns, carrying food for their young. Linnets twittered in the gorse. A jay lurked behind the screening leaves, watching me closely, peering down at the bushes, skulking through thorn and briar, searching for nests. A flock of lapwings flew slowly northwards, black against the intense blue of the sky.
The shrike came near again, returning to the birch where I had first seen him. He perched only ten feet away, apparently indifferent to my presence. The pale blue-grey crown of his wind-ruffled head was almost powdery-white in the sun, curiously unreal, as though it were of felt instead of feathers. The predatory head look disproportionately large compared with the slender body and longish tail. The wide black eye-stripes had a silken shine, like a rippling mask. The chest was pink and white. When he turned away from me, I could see the rich, glossy, fox-red of his back, and the black and white tail that was never still. A chiffchaff sang to the south, and the shrike’s head swung round to watch and listen. The high domed, blindfolded head moved constantly from side to side searching for suitable prey. It resembled the hooded turret of a gun, turning and turning, then suddenly revealing the glint of a metallic eye, beetle-like in the dark mask.
The shrike dropped lower in the dead birch. He swept downwards, and hovered above the bracken, two yards in front of me. His wings beat very fast, blurring and gleaming like a dragonfly’s. Then he fell like a kestrel, plunging down as though he were seizing the prey with his feet. He rose at once, and flew up to the poplar. His flight was surprisingly fast, undulating like a finch, but faster, and with a strange rippling effect. When he alighted in the tree, I saw that he had a stag beetle in his bill. He looked around for a long time before he eventually swallowed the beetle, biting it into three pieces and gulping it down. After five minutes, following a slight relaxation of his rigid alertness, the shrike flew from the poplar to a small oak. From a crevice in one of the branches he picked out an insect, whose movement he must have seen from thirty yards away.
 
 
When I had been watching the shrike for half an hour, I heard a sound like the wheezing of a starling in a small blackthorn bush nearby. I went closer, and saw two young shrikes clinging to twigs six inches above the nest they had just left. They called constantly, and the adult male began to bring food to them. The female I saw once only, when she perched on a dead tree. She was a speckled, chestnut-brown bird, looking slightly smaller and less conspicuous than the male. She was not so tame, and I did not see her feed the young.
The young shrikes were reddish-brown, the same colour as the adult female, and they were remarkably well-hidden among the leaves of the bush. They could not fly, and their wings and tails were still very short and stumpy. They clambered higher in the bush, clumsy but persistent, often falling back as far as they had climbed. Sometimes they fluttered from twig to twig, half-flying, half-falling. Their bills opened wide to show a bright orange gape and to emit their hoarse wheezing calls for food. They pecked at the blackthorn leaves while they waited. They were frog-like, with big heads and small bodies. Their huge saurian eyes gazed at me, or at the blue and green world beyond, with a wide, unfocused, uncomprehending stare, like that of a human baby. But when the male shrike was coming back with food, the eyes of the young changed at once, focusing on the returning bird long before I could see him, following every movement of his flight until he arrived in the bush.
When the male was very close, the calling of the young birds became a single prolonged speech. They would scramble as high in the bush as they could. One was slightly smaller than the other, and less active. For over an hour the male brought food to them at least once every five minutes, sometimes more often. Near the nest he became cautious. He would dive into a neighbouring bush, and would fly low to the young, suddenly appearing beside them. He would push an insect violently into an open gape, and would fly off again at once. The larger, noisier bird was fed more often than the smaller one. The screeching of all three birds would rise to a crescendo as the male landed in the bush. He had difficulty in perching on the same twig as the young, and he sometimes hovered as he fed them. There was much confused fluttering and jostling, and occasionally the food was dropped and not recovered.
The male shrike caught many beetles, taking them from the bracken, or from twigs and branches. Many insects were allowed to pass unpursued. Diptera did not interest him at all. He killed crane flies and great green grasshoppers, and – on one occasion – a golden-ringed dragonfly. The food he brought to the young birds was always the largest of his kills, not the smallest as one might expect. He often banged his prey on a branch, presumably to kill it quickly. His black bill shone wet with the juices of insects.
Suddenly he flew steeply, almost vertically, up into the air, rising high and fast. He seemed to ascend in long jerks, undulating upwards as though catapulted. He darted and jinked from side to side, beating his wings in rapid, irregular flurries. His pale head, bisected by the black eye-bars, shone conspicuously in the sun as he rose. There seemed to be no purpose in this violent upward dash. But high above the shrike a bumble bee slanted quickly away to the north. It had obviously seen its pursuer, and was trying to escape, but it was overtaken in ten seconds. The bee swerved and dodged from side to side, erratic as a bat. The shrike rose steeply above, and poised there for a moment with his black and white tail outspread. Then he swooped down in a flashing crescent, like a stooping hawk. His tail rippled up and fanned out above him as he dived, his head shone black and white. He snatched the bee from the sky, seized it with its bill as though it were motionless. It was a graceful and sudden end, a flourish of brilliant feathers in the sun and then the released pollen drifting up into the blue air. The shrike parachuted down to the poplar, falling in long slants and sudden vertical plunges. He killed his prey on a branch, and took it to the young birds, who had watched his upward flight from their eyrie in the blackthorn bush.
 
 
A sudden small shadow swung across the sunlit bracken. The shrike looked up, then dropped down into a hawthorn. A male hobby flew above, dashing forward and rolling from side to side, cutting into the wind like a swift. His wings were bright with speed, shearing the air, shedding light from their dark blades. His downbent head looked powerful and menacing, like a clenched fist. His tail pointed backwards, very still and rigid, sharpening away from the tall flicker of his wings. He was a lean, narrow, and high-shouldered hawk, shaped like a swift, bow-shaped; but the bow had bulges in it, the protrusive head, the elbow-like carpal joints. He glided smoothly, evenly forward, flowing over the air, skidding over its smoothness like a stone skimming across ice. His hard anchor-shape floated away, dark and sharp-edged. He seemed to be flattened against the sky, without depth. The tips of his narrow wings hung loosely down, like fingers trailed in water. Occasionally the long, curved primaries flexed with a quick swimming movement, like a fish waving itself forward with its fins. He began to catch insects, seizing them with his thin flexible toes and eating them as he glided, bending his head down to meet his upraised foot with no change or check of motion. Sheathed in his swept-back wings, he dived at a dragonfly that shone above the stream. His extended talons seemed to tear the sky down with him. Speed shattered his shape. I saw only fragments of grey and white and orange. The he swept upward, shaking the sky from his wings. The broken colours closed to black, and shrank small, as the long wings scythed and scythed him away towards the distant eastern pine wood.
The hobby is always the perfect epitome of the places it frequents. On the downs it is a hawk of the open land, of the grassy air and the singing light, a hunter of pipits and larks. By the river it is a water falcon, shining and rippling through the reflections of its prey, capturing dragonflies, spearing swallows and martins. Here on the heath it is like an intense flame that has cooled and condensed to the hard form of a falcon. Its wings are like the dark chitin of a beetle’s shard. It is a bird of the dry gorse, the pines, and the heather, feeding mainly upon moths, beetles, linnets, and warblers. The hobby has a liking for the astringent juices of insects, and for the bitter flesh of the birds and bats that prey upon them: though whether a hawk can actually taste its food can only be conjectured. It lives in those places where the late summer is richest, where birds and insects abound. It is a hawk of the south, startling and beautiful as it suddenly hurtles above in the violent flamenco of its flight.
 
 
By four o’clock the wind that had risen at midday had declined to a faint warm breeze from the south. The heat-haze hovered and glittered over the white path across the heather, like the gleaming wings of innumerable dragonflies. Many grasshoppers sang in the gorse, but most of the birds were silent. Occasionally I heard the muffled cooing of a turtle dove, or the dry-throated, difficult song of a reed bunting. The air smelt and tasted of the heat, arid and dusty as dead bracken. Far to the west, beyond the clump of pines, red and yellow spires of flame bled slowly up into black smoke. Trees flared like torches of pitch, and were left autumnal, their leaves fading from brilliant orange to dull brown or black. Rainbow streams of water curved up from hidden hoses. Soon there were no flames, but only the black smoke rolling upward with vicious speed, the heath slowly dying into the devouring air.
 
 
I followed the stream to the north till I came to a pond. It was roughly circular in shape, not more than fifty yards across, dark and still, with a fringe of green marsh. It was surrounded by small birches, gorse, and a few dwarf oaks and hawthorns. There was a smell of fox in the brackish air. The vanishing white scuts of rabbits flashed and bobbed in the sun. Willow warblers sang, and a solitary bullfinch called.
On a post beside the pond, sprung upward like a brown fungus in a green lawn, a sparrowhawk was perching. The black pupils of his eyes were small in the sun, deep sunk in the yellow smoulder of the raging irises. His thin toes clutched the post, like skinny yellow hands. Swallows and sand martins swooped and chattered about his narrow head. He crouched low, and squinted up at them. He watched the dark green of the gorse, waiting for a wing to flame. At the same moment I saw the white speck of a stonechat’s rump and the hawk’s reflection cleaving through the water. The stonechat tumbled into cover. The hawks’ foot trailed over him, swinging emptily, scrabbling loose air. The hawk flew on across the heath, without looking back. The stonechat flitted up on to the gorse again, the swallows and martins descended to the pond. I remembered the sulphurous glare of the hawk, and I touched the post where he had perched. There was of course no mark, no imprint on the wood. So intense a bird, breathing out such a heat of hunger, yet he left no mark. It was as though fire could be as cold and printless to the hand as water.
 
 
I stayed by the pond, while the sun sank below the heat of the day receded into the cool blue evening haze. More birds sang: willow warblers, whitethroats, a hedge sparrow, and a wren. The heather darkened, becoming greenish black, as it is in winter. I could smell the birch leaves. The dry earth was still quite warm to the touch. The call of a curlew rose from the sombre heath, like the sad voice of a shadow, proclaiming solitude, the passing of day, night’s wilderness returning. A small breeze ravelled at the water’s edge, and the calm reflections began to tremble like dark sails.
Swallows and swifts were still hawking for insects when the first nightjar sang. Daubenton’s bats flickered low above the water, their wings creaking like harness. A white migraine of ghost moths fluttered in the black gorse. With a hollow whistle of air, the sharp wing of a hobby skated over the shining skin of the pond. Then there were three hobbies, curving, darting, snatching at the dusk. The swallows disappeared, but the swifts remained. The hobbies fed upon insects, chased the swifts, pursued one another. They flew through an endless labyrinth, a maze of shuddering wings. They rose higher as the insects rose. They circled among swifts. The fretted surface of the pond seemed to float up into the sky. The sharp outline of the swooping wings contracted. They blurred, became small and misty, hawks of dark air. Then they vanished. The wild screaming of the swifts faded quite suddenly. Up there it was still day. I was in darkness, but they had found the light.

