There is a yellow harvest light above the fields, a tawny glow that is neither summer haze nor autumn mist. The red combines roar, and the corn is flung high through the smoke and the yeasty clouds of seed. Shining flakes of cirrus float in the pale violet sky. Sparrows gather at the farm. Swallows fly through the tattered shade of the trees, over the falling ponds, into the twittering barns that smell of mist and bread. There is an oppressive silence in the cobwebby dusk of the copses.
The lane passes the farm, and rises to a skyline of elms. The faded blue dust of the sky between the dark trees is brightest above the horizon. There is a low glare, as though the sun were rising beyond. It is the shine of salt water, a light that seethes and is never still. The air is hot in the lane, the stuffy hedges subdued by a whisper of unseen birds. Suddenly all is changed. I can feel the east wind steadily increasing, bearing the coldness and rigour of the sea. The elms move in the wind now, and the curve of the horizon flattens and sinks down. I stand at the top of the hill. The long estuary rises before me. It shivers out to east and west, like a great spear of light flung between earth and sky.
The water shines. It has no dimension. I cannot tell whether it is higher or lower than the hill where I am standing. Water, air, and light, float upward together. This is the world of the sky, of the east wind, of the ancestral sea. There is a strange breathlessness in the air. The body is lifted up by the joy of arrival, by the voice of the curlew, by the soaring cries of the gulls. The sky has descended. All things are set apart, made distant. They have a different life, a remoteness they do not possess inland. The sea has risen. Its charismatic glitter towers above.
 
 
It is midday. The tide is high, and the salt air ascends. I go down to the sea-wall, to the hidden life, to the spectrum of colour that flows from the estuarine light. The trees move back, are inland now, deep in their foreign season. The fields reach out on either side. Stones glint, and the dry earth is dusty under the feet of the pheasants. A hare spurts away from the lane, and ripples through the bleached stubble. A field of ripe barley, not yet cut, is alive in the wind, hissing and plunging like the sea. The yellow stems sway endlessly, crowned with a luminous surf of creamy white. Low down over the rustling wheat there is a pale brown mist, where swallows course low and dark, endlessly leaping up into blue, like fish darting through sunlit water. Something seems to move mysteriously in the nacreous light of the barley, in the saffron shine of the wheat. It ferments there, an exhalation of the summer land. After harvest it disappears, not to be found in stubble, or straw, or flown seed. It rises into the air, becomes the August haze.
The gleaming metallic floss of the white thistledown drifts slowly westward in the wind, rising and falling. The white tail-coverts of the house martins undulate over the dark green potato fields; cabbage-white butterflies hover in a shimmering dance above the heat-haze of the withered blossom. The long green ridges narrow to the horizon, meet in a mist of grey.
A kestrel hovers high above the stubble, a dark pulse twitching in blue air. He sinks down, hovers low, then sweeps upward again, slanting through the sky, relaxed, languid, calm-winged, content to rise and fall upon the air. The sun gleams on his sand-coloured back and wings, dark primaries, grey head, and long grey tail. The yellow shine of the slow-turning fields is reflected in the bland brown eye that gazes down. The curved face has the look of sleep upon it. He is tranquil, impassive, gliding with endless leisure, making a few idle circles, accepting the movement of the sun-warmed air, filtering it slowly through the rippling feathers of his outstretched wings. He glides to the east, is immersed and hidden in the heat-haze of the horizon, adrift in the summer wind.
 
 
The stony lane goes down, and dust rises as I pass. Skylarks flutter from the stubble with tremulous downbent wings and pure calls almost becoming song. They sink slowly down again, and run over the warm earth, their crests moving slightly in the wind. The white mayweed at the edge of the field shines in the deep ferny green of its leaves. Flocks of linnets sing as they flit and bounce above, aerial and unconfined. A yellowhammer flies up as I approach, a film of gritty dust dulling the brilliant colour of its feathers. The sea-wall rises slowly as the lane descends. The dazzling light of the estuary is compressed into a narrower and whiter line that suddenly vanishes. At once the air seems heavy, and the heat stifling.
A little owl has been lynched. He hangs by the neck from a gate-post where he sang in April. His big head seems shrunken now, lolling judiciously downwards in death, eyeless and light. Nothing can re-awaken the aching purity of his spring call. The peeled syrinx will, in time, emerge white and mute from the shrivelled husk of his throat, merely the bones of a voice. He moves in the wind, a dark plebeian swaying over the doomed patrician pheasants that swagger through the stubble.
 
 
The gate opens into a field where sheep are grazing. Two hundred yards to the south the sea-wall rises, a high slope of withered grass. The field is soft and green. There are few sounds. Rooks caw as they fly up from the grass and alight in the small stunted oaks that stand beside the dyke. Bulrushes bend heavily in the breeze. Some reed warblers are singing, a hesitant, fragmentary reminiscence of their summer reverie, instrumental in the tufted reeds. A snipe goes up, and a small flock of lapwings ebbs slowly out into the centre of the field. The still water of the dyke at the foot of the sea-wall is hidden by a scum of brilliant emerald weed. A green sandpiper rises suddenly from the muddy edge, as though it had been lifted by the wind. It dashes steeply up, jerking from side to side, erratic as a bat. It seems to follow a known pathway through the air, a maze of flight. It is a puckish, ethereal bird, a haunter of the dark green dykes and the deep gutters of the saltings. It is here at the end of every summer, a bright call twining up into the sky, seldom seen till almost gone.
The tall grass on the slope of the sea-wall is hissing in the wind and bending away to the west. It has a dry smell, like distant fire. It feathers the blue light of the sky. I clamber up, and a short-eared owl is wafted from the grass above. It passes close to me, directly overhead, looking down with what seems to be an expression of ineffable calm. Its huge eyes shine like lost gold in the withered grass of its face. I feel as a mouse must feel under the archangelic shadow of the great wings, and the flaring eyes, before the final darkness and the last angina pang of death. The owl’s wings beat slowly, and it is lifted and cast away by the wind, moving without apparent effort of will, as though it were flying in its sleep.
 
 
It is colder near the top of the wall. The inland fields are quiet. All sound comes from the estuary. A curlew flies over, heavily, wearily; then suddenly becomes buoyant with its rising voice. The tide must be very high now, for I can feel the cool breath of the brimming water, only a yard away from me, hidden by the grass. As I raise my head to look over the top, I seem to go out of the hot sunlight into the cold shadow of the wind.
Looking along the calm surface of the incoming tide, I cannot see where water ends and sky begins. At eye-level, the trees and buildings on the southern shore are hidden below the shining curve of the water. Half-way across the estuary, a mile to the south, a white sail is shimmering. Beyond it, there is only mist and distance that the eye cannot focus. The sail floats in a new element. Water and sky have an equal glittering smoothness, a porcelain glaze. The boat seems huge, winged with sail, for its size is doubled and made kite-shaped by the reflection beneath. It moves calmly forward, dipping and rising through the mirror of the water-sky. Then it turns to the west, and gradually diminishes, sinking slowly down into the tide.
The straight line of the sea-wall, where I am sitting, forms the eastern arm of a wide bay. Redshank fly across the water, leaving the shrinking tufts of the saltings. Curlew are moving inland. Many small waders have gathered on an elevated strip of shore along the western side of the bay. Using the sea-wall as concealment, I stalk these birds, creeping over the wall and down to the shore, without disturbing them. They are a flutter of grey and white, fifty yards away. The wind is rising, and small clouds have formed. The narrow shore is appreciably higher than the saltings, and is rarely covered by the tide.
 
 
Thousands of migrant waders feed along the perimeter of the estuary, on the saltings and mud-flats. For a few hours, or days, or weeks, they will stay here; then they will leave. The thought of the south – if so nebulous a conception can be called a thought – will grow in the mind of the flock, like a germination of a seed, and the present will suddenly become the past. The torrent of a wader’s mind can reflect nothing. There is no looking forward or back. There is only the impulse, like the tide drawn out by the moon.
It is impossible to compare a wader with any other species of the same size. They are so different; water and mud have changed them; they are beyond all other birds, as far out as they can go. They run, and their long legs flicker like the revolving spokes of a wheel; they fly, and their wings revolve like interrupted sunlight and their long bills shine. They can feed as easily in darkness as in light. They are birds of the forlorn edge of land. Their calls are the calls of parting. They do not belong in any world that we can recognise or comprehend. A dead wader is like something that has been shed from the sky. One cannot find the life it had. The surface has changed, the bloom has gone.
 
 
It is hard to tell how many waders are resting on the shore in front of me. I can count at least two hundred, and there are others hidden farther to the south. Some are asleep, standing on one leg. They face the wind and the incoming tide, which is already showering the lowest birds with spray. A group of starlings, and a magpie, are resting with them. They are birds that became accidentally entangled in the wildly whirling flock of waders as they flew over the fields to the west. They are now behaving like waders, as though they were hypnotised by the mind of the mob.
Four dunlin suddenly fly past, hesitant, wayward, skimming low, looking for land. Three of them alight on a small hump of mud that still projects from the water; the fourth bird overshoots it, hovers with feet splashing, then lets the wind carry him backwards till his feet touch the mud. In the telescope, the dunlin are very close, less than a yard away. I can see the intricate brown and fawn stripes that glow upon their backs. Their legs run quickly, a dark oily flicker in the sunlight; then they are still, black and wet and shining. Their long bills, narrow and curving slightly downwards at the tip, seem merely to peck at the mud, poking it, as though they were unaccustomed to their awkward length. They must be finding food very near the surface. Their dark eyes seem colourless, innocent of thought, reflecting the mud and the starring of the sun. They are round eyes, like bivalves, filtering the light.
The musical sound of the assembling waders increases in volume as the tide rises. The grey plover look stolid and settled. Some still have the black and silvery-white feathers of their summer plumage; others are in winter dress, a pallid arctic grey. Occasionally the plover wake, and call mournfully, as other waders fly down to join them; then they sleep again. There is an endless confusion of shrill cries, of wings hissing and fluttering over the immense rising stillness of the water. The strip of shore narrows, and the waders huddle closer, some standing in the tide. Deep in the grey cloud there are the tortoiseshell gleams of turnstones. Redshank alight, their orange legs quivering and their red-billed heads nodding nervously, but they do not stay. A party of dunlin are now so close together that their wind-ruffled feathers look like the humped fur of a bear. Swallows flit and glide past, swooping down with a hollow rush of curved-back wings to seize insects from the surface of the water.
The sun shines between the big white clouds. The sky is a deeper blue, a brilliant glow of cobalt, an estuary sky. Low down, near the cloud-lifting light of the tide, I have a wonderful feeling of involvement with the whole water world around me, with the waders whose luminous wild cries float endlessly out across the soft sky of the bay. A flock of greenshank stream past, their colours brilliant, intense, an unearthly shining of flake-white, olive, and grey ash.
The dunlin are very close now, only ten yards away. Their brown backs, long bills, black legs, and large dark eyes, are moist with watery light. Their black bellies rest on soft reflected black. Over their plumage, over their white-striped faces and rounded bodies, there is a sleek bloom glowing, a sheen like a film of dew, as though they have emerged from the water and will soon go back beneath its sheltering surface. I make a slight movement that alarms them. After much hesitation, and restless turning of their heads, they fly away, calling quietly, trailing their long legs in the water. They sail through the sunlight, like a gold and silver bow that bends back across the bay and then straightens down to the shore again as though its arrow had been loosed. When dunlin are so tame, one feels they must be in some way simple, their senses dulled by some congenital defect. The truth is that man’s tall image can still bend harmlessly about their water-rounded life.
 
 
The tide rises higher, and the shore is almost covered. I have to go back to the inland side of the wall. The waders begin to leave the diminishing line of shingle. They fly above the bay in small oval flocks. The water seems to lose its pearly shine as it comes closer to the top of the sea-wall. There are more clouds now, and the strengthening wind has shattered the reflections. Sleeping gulls and duck float peacefully in the centre of the bay. Three herons fly slowly to the north.
There is a roar of rising wings. The shingle has disappeared, water rules, and the waders must find refuge in the sky. They rise together in a dense cloud of wings and articulate, sorrowing calls. A stream of gold and white and silver shapes pours down like an emptied seine of glimmering fish. For ten minutes the twinkling flocks hurl wildly round, rising and falling in shining waves and flinging spray. Then they disperse, flying inland to rest until the water sinks again.
 
 
The tide moves up in tiny jerks and quivers till it is only six inches below the top of the wall. For a long time it seems to remain at that level. The ebb is never at first apparent. The estuary is larger than it has ever been. There is more water. The sea-wall, which usually stands high above the tide, looks now like a thin line of shore half-hidden by the waves. The shining grey horizon to the south seems to float upon the water. The distant elms have lost their green haze, the buildings their white glitter. There is no sun, the wind is cold, grey clouds move endlessly across the sky. There is a harsh smell of the sea. The bay is no longer blue. Small waves foam over the leaden surface where mallard and shelduck are sinking and rising. The grass of the saltings is waving in the wind of the sea, far down below the surface. The air is quiet. The waders have gone. There are no swallows; they are feeding over the dykes or have flown inland. The dark head of a seal appears in the bay. Cormorants fly steadily above, looking for their lost perching-places, old posts and barnacled jetties now concealed by the highest tide for many years.
To the north, beyond the eastern arm of the bay, there are patches of brown and white discolouring the shining yellow stubble near the lane. In the telescope, this haze of small dots grows into hundreds of resting water-birds. Twenty great black-backed gulls are standing on the horizon. Their ivory-yellow bills are like a line of tusks. Skylarks chase and flash low across the stubble, where the legs of redshank gleam like orange stalks among the yellow. The sleeping curlew look like faded plants, their bills like withered pods. A host of small waders is waiting for the tide to fall. Their minds – whether or not they are asleep – are idle and suspended, like sails at rest. They have that blank certainty we call patience. There is nothing to be done till the mud that contains their food has risen from the water. They are becalmed, their bodies swaying in the wind above the long stems of their legs.
 
 
I leave the sea-wall, and walk across the long narrow promontory of green fields that separates the bay from the creek to the west. I feel as though I had been afloat, borne up by the rising tide. Now I am stranded on the strange unrelenting flatness of the land again. The grass of the fields is a rich, deep green, soft and yielding to the tread. Black rooks waddle and probe. Lapwings go up silently, like big black and white butterflies. Flocks of resting waders, which had been hidden in the long grass, rise suddenly in front of me, slanting and rushing upward like a cloud of fine black dust, dark and tornado-shaped, a serpent of the air.
A wide dyke crosses the fields, overshadowed by a hawthorn hedge. There are several small reedy ponds and clumps of gorse close by. A common sandpiper is feeding in the mud at the edge of the dyke. It bobs up and down as I watch it. But bobbing is a meagre word for that violent galvanic spasm, that convulsion of head and body as involuntary as a hiccup. The sandpiper feeds, and then runs forward again. It keeps jerking upward, like a puppy being lifted high on its legs by the twitching up of a lead. Suddenly it flies low along the dyke and across the field, as though it were escaping from itself, flicking away in a level curve of flight, its down-bent wings jerking like stiff blades.
Swallows dip and flutter over the still water of the dyke. Yellow wagtails spurt up with shrill calls, as though they had been catapulted into the air. The sun shines suddenly, and all colours glow. The shrivelled leaves of a poplar are stained with an acid yellow. The hawthorns look parched. They have no burnish now, but the dark red berries gleam in the sun. Blackbirds and song thrushes are feeding upon them. A willow warbler trembles on a twig, tame but fearful. It is a young bird, almost as yellow as a yellow wagtail.
Two snipe are standing deep in the mud of a pond. I have the sun behind me, and can get close to them. They crouch, resting low on their greenish legs. Their long bills are held downwards, a few inches above the surface, glistening wet and brown. Occasionally a drop of mud runs down the shining barrels and falls glinting to the ochre mud beneath, where the snipe are faintly reflected. With their large brown eyes always closing, yet never completely shut, and their bills held at ease, they have the sleek, contented look of pigs asleep. They grow among the green water-plants, like big, brown and fawn-striped marrows. I feel I shall have to uproot them. But when I move forward, they are off at once, rising without effort, calling hoarsely as they twist up above the fields, out of sight in ten seconds.
 
 
A large brown bird is flying over the far side of the field, beating slowly to and fro below the level of the sea-wall. It turns, floats, sinks and rises, looking very like a short-eared owl, though its head is smaller and narrower. Its long, wide wings move heavily up and down, and are then held high above its back in short glides. It is a marsh harrier. Two crows are trying to drive it away. It beats along the dyke, and sweeps low over the gorse-thickets and the reeds of a pond. Suddenly it banks steeply, and swivels round in a tight circle to go back the way it came. Its wing-beats are measured and ponderous. The primaries are separated and spread wide apart as it glides, projecting outwards and upwards like brown-gloved fingers. Sometimes it hovers for a moment, very slowly, then flies on as before. Twice it swoops down and skims up again, with long legs hanging loose and big talons raking aimlessly through the reeds. To escape from the crows, it rises across the fields to the north, putting up flock after flock of starlings. At three hundred feet it begins to glide. Slowly it soars above the fields in large circles. Its outspread wings and tail are very long and wide. Its downbent head seems disproportionately blunt and slender. The crows follow it for a time, looking small in comparison. It drifts high to the north, and disappears above the cornfields.
Disturbed by the harrier, a wood sandpiper rises from the dyke, making the sky seem lighter. It wanders up into the wind, calling as it tilts and sways over the apex of its climb. It swoops and zigzags down to land with beautiful precision on the speck of pond-mud that its eye has chosen. There is so much sameness of mud to choose from that one would think it unimportant where they landed, yet waders seem always to select a specific place.
The wood sandpiper’s flight, and call, and way of life, are as difficult to bring down into words as it is to seize a passing swift by the wing. Once can describe it biologically, but one cannot adequately explain its appeal to the watcher. It is the outward look, the surface gloss, that matters. It seems to be so light, so filled with sunlit air, so loose and free along the edge of land and water, like a shadow of sunlight in a world of shadow.
Ten minutes later, another marsh harrier is hunting near the pond. This is a larger, darker bird, which flies in exactly the same way, with many abrupt changes of direction. The slowness of its deep wing-beat is deceptive, for it is moving quite fast. The steady pulse of the leisured wings seems to disguise the predatory intent. Suddenly the bird spins round, with wings stretched flat and firm upon the air. Then it crumples, and falls violently into the reeds beneath. I do not see it rise, but I cannot find it when I walk around the pond. Two snipe fly up, and a rabbit runs past me. The marsh harrier lifts heavily from the gorse-bushes fifty yards away. It is an adult female, very dark brown, with a white face and throat, and a brilliant golden-yellow crown. As it flies to the north-east, across the bay and above the inland fields beyond, I think of it – incongruously perhaps – as being like a shire horse. It seems to have the same colour, the same heavy power and unexpected speed and lightness. I am more used to seeing smaller hawks. This bird is so large, so slow to anger, so much farther back in time. It seems to have a long way to come within its own body before it begins to fall towards its prey.
 
 
I cannot see the estuary from here, but there is a glow of light, and a brightness in the air above, which could never be found inland. The field is quiet, and the sky is overcast again. The east wind moves through the dry reeds and the brittle spines of the gorse, bends the grass into a flow of white, quivers among the faded leaves of the hedge, and passes away to the west. There is a lisping of blue tits in the hawthorns, and the occasional harsh chuckling call of a hidden magpie. The estuary birds seem to be sanctified by the illumination of water, by the nearness of the sea. The loneliest land is that which is always about to end.
The clouds are high above, but lower and darker to the north and south, presaging rain. The water of the creek has a serene surface of bluish grey, lines and flecked with light, closely and intricately pleated by the wind-waves. It is cold upon the sea-wall, and there is a smell of rain in the air. The land to the west, beyond the wide creek, shines black and white. All colour has gone. To the north, half a mile away, at the head of the creek, there are houses, trees, and the masts of boats, sharp and clear against the low hills beyond.
Through the binoculars I can see every detail, outlined in dark grey: the white yachts; the plantation of brown and yellow masts, their summer sails already shed; the bright grey water swindling down into veins of silver blue between shining slopes of mud; the moored boats rocking upon the surface, tilting the perched white gulls. Beyond the haze of masts there are bungalows half-hidden by dark Monterey cypresses and wind-lashed Lombardy poplars. The binoculars create a place that does not exist. If I were as close as they pretend, all would look different. Only from here, in the silent privacy of distance and the illusion of the magnifying prisms, is there a wooded land beyond the summer village, a dark mysterious unattainable place, a forest of elms and cypresses and firs.
In some winters an immigrant sparrowhawk will make this illusion real, hunting daily through the gardens of the empty holiday bungalows, roosting in the evergreen darkness of the cypresses. He sees the place for what it really is: derelict open woodland with many dead trees standing upon the water. He glides low over the lonely gardens, perching upon gates and chimneys, passing like a grey wind through the winter dusk of the fallen summer land.
 
 
Along the sides of the creek, the saltings are rising from the water as the tide sinks slowly down. Twelve magpies fly out from the hawthorn hedge to the saltings, but they do nothing when they get there. They appear to be waiting to feed, vivid streaks of black and white against the dark green of the glasswort and suaeda. Goldfinches leave the thistles of the field, where they have been feeding. They fly lightly through the wind, dropping down on to the saltings, their tinkling calls as airy and tremulous as the wind in the salt grass. Robins sing in the oaks and hawthorns near the wall, and their melancholy cadences harmonise with the sad calling of the redshanks in the creek.
Suddenly there is a shrill whickering call behind me, like the voice of a wader. Two stoats are bounding along below the sea-wall, springing high over the tufts of grass, calling as they run. One turns, and dashes up the steep slope of the wall towards me, flashing reddish-brown under the tall grass. He stops abruptly, close to my feet, and disappears, wriggling down into a crevice in the dry earth. He emerges a moment later, and peers up at me through the grass, standing on his hind-legs to see me better. After a long look, he comes slowly out into the open, and pours himself down into a small hole. Again he is too curious to remain below. He soon pokes his head out to see if I am still there, resting his front paws on the edge of the hole. Through the binoculars I can see clearly the thin, pointed, wolfish face, and the raised black circles of the unchanging eyes. He does this twice more, diving down and popping suddenly up again. Then he tires of it – or just forgets – and does not reappear.
 
 
The east wind is bending tall from the sea, then slowly drooping and falling limp upon the water. It is a time without age, the final clarity of summer. The estuary seems to drift slowly from the land, like a raft of severed sky. The light lies upon the surface in a thin brilliance, a glistening film. The clouds have passed to the west, and the sun shines again. The green seaweed, and the wet yellow mud beyond, glow in the sun. The pale herring gulls stand at the edge of the receding tide, gleaming like huge pearls. To the north, where the sky is dark with rain, tall cowls of orange flame dance above the burning stubble. Swallows flicker endlessly over the dykes and the saltings. Distant mallard climb the sky. The elegiac song of a robin lingers in the salt air.
I watch the evening light withdraw. The estuary sinks lower as the tide ebbs away and the bland mud rises. Curlew, redshank, and grey plover, are feeding on the shore. Their subdued plaintive calls seem to fly softly, endlessly outward over the reflections of the sky in the wet mud. A black-tailed godwit rises into flight, long-billed and angular. It sways above the water, gliding with wings held high and drooping from the shoulder, as a heron glides. It sweeps down and back to the shore, with its bill swinging from side to side like a length of piping. The rust-brown blade of sail comes slowly in from the sea. The water is now a pale snow-blue, on which feathers of darker blue are floating. The sail of the barge turns red, then black, as it drifts away to the west, moving inland. The water settles behind it, ruffling out like the feathers of a sleeping bird.
Hundreds of black-headed gulls rise from the green fields as I go back towards the bay. The air is ragged with their hectoring calls. Lapwings lament, but do not fly up. The land has a lost look now, as the sun goes down. The distant bleating of sheep deepens the evening silence. Everything seems to be slowly subsiding, land and water moving downwards together. The saltings of the bay are sage-green and brown and tawny yellow with the withered sea-shapes of salicornia and suaeda. The gutters of the saltings, sunk deep between ten-foot cliffs of mud, are invisible from the sea-wall. The bay seems much wider than it did when there was only water to be seen there. The flatness of land has a greater distance than the flatness of water. Many redshanks are feeding, hidden by the saltings. They call unceasingly, a musical diffusion of wild sound that cannot be identified with any individual bird. These are not isolated bird-voices. The sound I hear is like the melancholy utterance of the mud itself, of the falling water, of the quiet desolation, of the saltings’ twilight world.
 
 
I stand on the sea-wall, where I first looked over at the brimming tide eight hours ago. The distant red woods of the northern horizon are like sombre spires of rain. A line of waiting herons, a gaunt Egyptian frieze, recedes along the sunlit shore. Two miles to the south, across the water and the mud, I can see the powdery white shapes of concrete towers and promontories, their whiteness flaking slowly into haze. Far above me, harsh screams are shearing at the air. High in the descending sunlight, two common terns gleam white across the sky. They glide downward, one close behind the other, drifting and swaying, rushing silently down in a wave of snaking curves. They come lower, circling overhead, calling fiercely, their red bills daggering from black crowns.
Sunset kindles in the shallow water; the herons leave the shore, and rise to where the sun still shines. It is already dusk in the green field between the sea-wall and the lane. High clouds redden in the west. A little owl calls from an oak. A flock of migrating greenshank circles slowly in the deep blue autumnal sky, moving steadily and rising over the estuary and the inland fields. Their beautiful, flat, monotonous four-note calls recede and return for ten minutes, till ultimately they die away to the south. Distant fires prick yellow through the smoke of dusk. Flocks of starlings fly west toward their roosting-place; mallard go inland to feed in the stubble. There is an inevitable stillness here, like the calm solitude of still water. A meadow pipit calls as I cross the field. The green of the grass intensifies, then fades to grey. All shapes recede, then seem to come slowly nearer, as dusk deepens and day ends.
There is a soft breath of parting among the brittle stems of the reeds at the side of the dyke. A short-eared owl floats up into the air. Its wings press slowly down and forward as it billows away across the fields. Gliding and banking steeply, it fades through the dusk. All around me, I hear the calls of golden plover rising like a mist of sound.
The flames of the stubble-fires sink down under their wings of smoke. Pheasants call. The song of a tawny owl wavers from a distant wood. I go up the lane towards the farm. At first the estuary is hidden from me by the sea-wall. It is lifted higher as the path rises; remote now, and dark, though only half a mile away. The black-edged water is silvery at the centre, shrinking down upon the mud. The far shore gleams red, and there is a reflection of boats at rest and of the trees above them, under the last blue line of sky.
Deep in the afterglow, the gently imploring calls of partridges breathe upwards, like smoke-curls of autumn dusk. A hare runs into the dark corn. The empty land reaches out beyond the dusk, into the dews of night, into the fields of stars.
The estuary sinks slowly down below the black rampart of the farm, with all its brightness held up to me for the last time in one great flashing rim of light. Then I go inland, into the dark country of the minatory owls.