The snow is Neolithic, eroded by the warm south wind. Snow tumuli crumble where the great drifts rose against the sky. The whole valley ripples with running water. Ditches are streams, streams brooks, the brook a river, the river a chain of moving lakes. Lapwings and golden plover have come back. All day the lapwing flocks were passing over to the north-west. I looked at them in binoculars and found larger flocks above them, flying much higher, invisible to the unaided eye.
By half past three I had given up searching for the peregrine and was sitting glumly on a gate near the dead oak. When he suddenly flew past me, I was lifted to joy on the surge of his wings. There was a zestful buoyancy, a lilting eagerness in his rushing-past, boring, dipping, swaying, curving-up flight. He perched in a tree to the east and looked back at me. I felt that I had been found. He crouched on a low branch in the crabbed, uneasy, sidling stance that means he is hunting. Among the many gnarled branches of the oak he was hard to pick out. After five minutes desperate rest he flew off to the eastern orchard. Rising and falling, he went switchbacking over the wind, and dashed down at fieldfares that rose from the trees. I followed him through the long orchard aisles. Blackbirds were still scolding, and hundreds of fieldfares were skirmishing, but the hawk had gone. I went back to the gate.
At half past four the jackdaw cloud above the brook lifted and scattered as the peregrine came through. Sweeping down wind, he sailed splendidly up from the south, wings held high in a ‘V’, swaying and gliding at speed. He was all wind-borne and flowing. He swept on towards north orchard, skimmed over the boundary poplars, curved down in a tremendous wing-lit parabola. I did not see him again.
During the day’s long tramp I found forty-nine kills: forty-five woodpigeons, two pheasants, a red-legged partridge, and a blackbird. Only the last two were recent; the rest had been hidden under snow for a long time.
