Long scrolls and columns of cloud poured away in the grey east wind and made the sky seem endless. Light strengthened with the wind, was brilliant in the cold gale of afternoon, faded to mist and dusk an hour before sunset.
I walked out to the point, where the soft river light of the estuary meets the bleaker brightness of the sea. A large falcon peregrine flew low across the water towards the line of empty cargo ships moored in midstream. She swooped up to perch on the masthead of one of them, stayed there for five minutes, then flew towards the southern shore.
By half past four the light was very gloomy, and a short-eared owl was hunting over the marshes. A barn owl flew beneath it, and the larger owl swooped viciously at the smaller. The barn owl dived into the grass and stayed there for ten minutes. After this encounter the two owls kept apart, one in each half of the marsh. As the light slowly congealed, the brown owl was hidden, but the white owl grew whiter. They hunted in exactly the same manner, probably for the same prey.
Woodpigeons went up in clouds from trees near the farm, half a mile to the west. A thousand birds rose, clenched together, exploded outwards in a vast seething diffusion. A peregrine was hunting there, but I was too far away to see it.
In the early dusk I crossed the marsh and went up the lane towards the village. I was stopped by a startlingly loud scream, a shrill ‘chow-week’, from a solitary lapwing in a field to the west. As it called it flew low and fast. Behind it, flying just above the furrows, the lean, racing shape of a tiercel peregrine glinted golden. His wings cleaved high above his back as he drew up to the lapwing with long, savage, rowing strokes. The lapwing gained by making sudden twists and turns, but the peregrine closed up in a second, turning in wider arcs but at greater speed. As the lapwing flew towards the cover of some bushes, the peregrine rose above it, hovered black against the sky, swooped vertically down. It was an appalling blow. The lapwing was banged into the earth. The two birds fell together; one slack and soft in death, the other tense with rage and shock. This solitary lapwing had stayed too late from the flock, lost in the ritual of its display and song. Trailing the dead bird in his foot, the peregrine flew over the darkening field to the marsh, where the white owl was still hunting.
