It was a cool limpid sunrise, just a lightening of the eastern haze, a faint intensity of cloud. A late barn owl wavered by the river, white above a black reflection. The peregrine glided over, swooped at the quiet owl. Reflections swayed and clashed, like a rush of pike-torn water. The owl dodged as nimbly as a lapwing, but it flew much faster; slashes of flake white glimmered across green fields. The peregrine lifted from the chase, soared in the first sunlight, circled east; the owl crept to darkness in a hollow tree.
Two lesser spotted woodpeckers flew into a grove of larches. I heard their strident, slightly muffled calls. The slurred, breathy notes were exhaled with effort; a querulous, strangulated neighing. They perched on a high larch twig, a foot apart, hissing and buffeting each other with their wings. Then they retreated into ballet attitudes. They stood erect, with leaf-shaped wings held open to show the wavy markings on the pale undersides, pointing their bills vertically upward. They looked like strange primeval butterflies clinging to a huge tree-fern in a steamy prehistoric jungle. One flew to a dead willow. He landed on the side of the tree, without loss of speed, as though his large feet were disced with suckers. White bars shone across the darkness of his elliptical, ladybird back, which always looks as if a small white-painted ladder had been leant against it, leaving wet rung marks. He drummed on the dead wood in long rattling sequences, with only short pauses between them. His bill bounced back too fast for the individual taps to be seen; the shuddering head was blurred. His drumming is a little slower than the great spotted woodpecker’s. It is pitched higher, and it does not die away. With practice, the two can always be distinguished. The ear learns quicker than the eye.
After drumming, he tapped on the tree a dozen times, slowly, emphatically, and very loudly, drawing his head so far back that he had to lean outwards to the full extent of his legs. The second bird came bounding across, and landed on the other side of the tree. Both were still for a minute. Then the second bird fluttered aggressively at the other, and drove him off, taking his place at the sounding-board. When the lesser spotted woodpecker’s drumming is prolonged, it has a slight resemblance – both in resonance and vibration – to the song of a nightjar. Undoubtedly the sound is mechanically produced, by the stuttering rattle of the bill against dead wood, but it may also echo against the bird’s syrinx in some way. That could explain the incredible loudness of the sound. The loudest drumming is produced with the tips of the mandibles held wide apart.
Willow warblers and chiff-chaffs sang softly in the faint green mist of the hill woods. The big head of a tawny owl bobbed across the gloomy gaps of light in a fir plantation. Where the sun shone, there were blue shadows fumed with a humming warmth of insects. Down through the trees, I could see the small fields, and the dark indentation of the river. The peregrine appeared, stooping at a gull. They passed like a moving film, flicking behind trees, then snapping off into darkness.
The estuary was quiet; no hawks, no kills. A pair of lapwings called across the marshes, the hen in the grass, the cock singing and displaying. He flew like a mad clown, whirling orange, black, and white. His wings seemed to cartwheel along the ground, like windmill sails walking. They flexed like fins, waved like tentacles, as he tumbled, swooped, and climbed, tangling with the air.
