It was six o’clock, an hour before sunrise, when I stopped to watch a barn owl. It wavered up to the road, whitening and hardening out of the grey half-light, drifted across, and went softly down towards the river. There was a heavy breath of silence in the dew-damp fields. A second owl rose from the grass verge, and passed close. Its round white face looked slowly back, the big lolling head turned in wonderment. The dark prune-like eyes shone through the sad fool’s mask of feathers. Then the long white wings came up and gathered the bird away into the fir wood, where night remained.
On the estuary the day was cold and clear. I saw the tide rise and turn, and watched waders feeding and at rest, while duck slept, and the sun moved west above the elm-crowned islands.
An hour before sunset I lay on the stone slope of the sea-wall, facing the golden-red fire of the dilating sun. The tide dwindled on the mud. The cold air sharpened, and began to smell of the coming night. With a roar of wings, like a cliff collapsing into the sea, every bird on the shore rose, leaving it bright beneath a wing-clouded sky. Wigeon flew overhead, sweeping up from the marsh behind the wall. There was a loud smacking sound like a plank hitting mud, a splash of falling excrement, and a harsh whistling of wings. The steeply climbing wigeon fanned apart. One fell back on to the marsh, huddled and slack, its narrow head hanging golden-crested from the drooping, shaking neck. It looked unreal, as though it should have spilt sawdust, not dripped blood. It lay where it fell, crumpled and spoilt.
The peregrine did not return to its kill while I was near. I had not seen it at all. It killed in the air above me and still I could not see it, so fast and sudden was its stoop. (When I went there next morning, it had already eaten and gone. The headless wigeon lay sacrificially upon its back, the creamy-whiteness of its bones gleaming in the sun above the dark bloodstains and the soft feathers lifting and falling in the wind.)
At dusk I saw a barn owl again, hunting between road and river. For twenty minutes I quartered the meadow, moving across in long, straight lines. Six feet above the grass it flew, with fast even wing-beats. The steady pulse of its wings was curiously soothing. Dusk deepened. The owl grew bigger and whiter. The rising moon turned from deep orange to yellow as it drifted clear of the trees. The owl rested on a gate-post, and I could see the bland meditative mask of its face looking at me from the grey of the field. The curved hook of its beak protruded from the heart-shaped disc of the mask, like a single claw. The dark eyes were rimmed with wine. It flew overhead, and in the first coldness of the spring night, suddenly called. A hoarse bellowing shriek drew out to a sharp edge, and bristled away to silence. But not the silence that was there before.
