Today was a whole season away from yesterday, warmed by a strong west wind and mellow sunlight, hazing down to a yellow scented dusk. Three hundred golden plover fed in meadows by the river, with lapwings, gulls, and fieldfares. They moved slowly through the grass, like grazing cattle. Then every bird rose, as though a net had been twitched beneath them and had flung them up together into air. Small birds took to trees, gulls and plover to the sky. Six snipe flew with the plover, and stayed with them in their high gyrations.
Through this flickering web of wings I saw a peregrine flash in the sun, and a plover tumbling down. It took me a long time to find it, and the hawk had gone by then. The plover had been struck from below. There was a wound in its side, as though it had been stabbed with a thin-bladed knife. Some flesh had already been eaten from the breast. One of its legs was withered and useless. It is astonishing how unerringly a peregrine can select a deformed or abnormal individual from a large flock of apparently identical birds. It may be that even the slightest physical weakness or difference in plumage can disastrously affect a bird’s ability to escape. Perhaps a sick bird does not wish to live.
As I entered the orchard, the dark tiercel glowed up to an alder beside the brook and watched me walk between the apple trees. He flew to the hazel hedge, and I sat down twelve yards away from him. We looked at each other for a while, but the hawk lost interest and began to watch the grass. When he flew stiffly past me, I knew by the sharp jerking of his wings that he had sighted prey. He hovered, dived into the grass, rose with a mouse in his foot. He carried it across to the dead oak and ate it there, tilting his head far back to watch the shining southern sky, where the golden tiercel was soaring to the coast and gulls were circling. When the long trail of bird-clouds had passed below the hill, he went back to the brook.
I kept very close to him as he hovered over the orchard or rested in alders, but he ignored me completely. He looked intently at the grass near my feet, seeing or hearing some movement of which I was quite unaware, although I was only two yards from it and the hawk was thirty. His eyes followed this movement. Suddenly his head jerked up and he flew quickly across to hover above the grass ten years away. He turned on his side, closed his wings, and stooped. It was a fall of six feet only, but the technique of the stoop is the same for six feet as for six hundred. He hit the grass hard, but without impact, soft and silent as an owl. He rose from it lightly, carrying a large dead mouse, which he took to an apple tree and swallowed in two bites, first the head, then the rest. All this was done within twenty yards of me and I did not even have to keep still.
He rested for ten minutes, then hovered over the northern half of the orchard, between the pond and the hazel hedge, where the grass is shorter. He quartered the ground thoroughly, and seemed keener than ever. Eating the second mouse had increased his hunger. For half an hour he hovered in the gusty wind, without resting. He stooped only once, and missed. The sunlit orchard was very quiet, laned with pale amber light. The only sounds were the songs of thrushes and blackbirds, muted by distance, the occasional call of a moorhen, the creak and rustle of twigs in the wing. The only movement was the silent threshing of the hawk’s long wings beating through the sunlit aisles. Silent to me; but to mice in the short grass, to partridges hidden and dumb in long grass under the trees, his wings would rasp through the air with the burning whine of a circular saw. Silence they dread; when the roaring stops above them, they wait for the crash. Just as we, in the war, learnt to dread the sudden silence of the flying bomb, knowing that death was falling, but not where, or on what.
In the mellow sunlight of the warm unclouded spring, the peregrine shone and blinked behind the branches of the apple trees like a setting sun. When I walked through the orchard, he followed me, hovering above, hoping I would flush something for him. Down by the brook, a stoat came running and jumping through the tussocky grass and the brambles, carrying a water vole in his jaws, holding it high so that it did not drag in the grass. The soft vole, fat and flabby in death, was twice the size of the thin-flanked stoat. It was like a tiger carrying a bullock. I left the hawk to his patient hunting, and the stoat to his meal.
For one tiercel peregrine there is the cloudless sky, the wide valley, the hills, the estuaries, the sea itself; twenty paradisal miles of hunting land, a million birds to choose from, ten thousand feet of warm and windy air to sail and soar upon. For the other tiercel, just as strong, with the same sharp bill and biting feet, there is only the quiet corner of an orchard, an acre of grass and apple trees, a few mice, a partridge perhaps, worms, and then sleep. He seems to be hypnotised by this small symmetry of trees. He is like a gambler who cannot resist just one more throw in the hope that his luck will change.
I went along the brook and up to the dead elm to see if the golden tiercel had come back from the coast. He was not there, so I sat down to wait in a corner of the field. The shadow of a big oak was imprinted on the bare earth in front of me, and I could see the shapes of small birds flitting through the phantom crown of branches. I was almost asleep when a kingfisher flew overhead and went down to the brook. I had never seen one against the sky before; always I had seen them lit from below by reflecting river light. Flying high over dry earth, against the matt surface of a cloud, it seemed a feebler and much less splendid bird. Wild things are truly alive only in the place where they belong. Away from that place they may bloom like exotics, but the eye will seek beyond them for their lost home.
The tiercel glided down from the east at one o’clock and settled in a small oak on the far side of the field. I crept along in the shadow of a blackthorn hedge till I was only forty yards away from him, with the sun behind me. He faced the sun, and soon became drowsy and slack on his feet. He drew one leg up into his feathers, and slept, waking frequently to preen and look around. Hawks sleep lightly. They wake to the movement of a leaf in the breeze, to the swaying whisper of grass, to the lengthening and shutting-off of shadows. They are fugitives who have escaped from everything but fear.
The sun lowered, and the hawk shone in the amber light, every feather sleek and burnished or rippling in the breeze. He shone in the network of contorted branches like a splendid copper vessel splashed with gold. The big eyes protruded slightly from the angle where the vertical moustachial lobes met the dark horizontal eye bars. The bare blue-grey skin surrounding them gleamed white whenever the hawk turned his head. The oaks and elms, the sky and clouds above, were all reflected in those brilliant sepia eyes, as though they were painted in miniature on a glaze as smooth as the white of an egg. They were strangely indolent eyes. Sometimes they seemed to dusk over with a faint purple bloom like the mineral film coating the lenses of binoculars or the bloom on the dark skin of a plum.
Between half past three and four the hawk became more alert, flexing his tail, shifting his feet about, looking around and glancing up at the sky with quick turns of his head. He flew without warning, circled up above the field, sailed out into a long glide as though intending to soar. The glide changed to a downward swoop, and as I followed him down I saw a pair of kestrels rising into view, flying low above the brook. The peregrine struck at them, and they dived into a tree together. The male kestrel flew away to the south, calling shrilly; the female stayed in the tree. The peregrine flew north, carrying the mouse that one of the kestrels had dropped. These kestrels were attacked because the tiercel is now defending a territory and will not tolerate other raptors there. He might have killed one of them if he had not seen the falling mouse. He was unable to resist his instinctive urge to follow it down and catch it.
The peregrine returned to his perch, but he did not relax at all. His eyes had lost their languor. They had a pale brown glare, like wintry sunlight shining through the thickness of a wood. He circled up into the warm blue haze and soared away down wind. The air was heavy and sweet-smelling, borne in the wind like pollen.
I knew he would not come back today, and all the birds around me knew it too. Woodpigeons began to move about again. A flock of them flew across the fields between the two woods, keeping close to the ground, never rising more than a yard above it. They feared the stoop, for many have died while crossing from wood to wood. The kestrels flew to the dead elm, tremulously calling. In the nettles at the foot of the tree I found pellets dropped there by both kestrel and peregrine. The peregrine’s contained many woodpigeon feathers, and several large gritty stones an eighth of an inch across, with sharp points and edges. It picks them up, as an aid to digestion, when it bathes in the brook.
For an hour longer I scanned the distant ridges, while all around me birds sang and fed in peace. Imprisoned by horizons, I envied the hawk his boundless prospect of the sky. Hawks live on the curve of the air. Their globed eyes have never seen the grey flatness of our human vision.
It was high tide at the estuary. As the land light faded, the sky above would grow bright with the shine of brimming water. The peregrine would fall upon the scattered tribes of sleeping waders. Their wings would rise into the sunset, like smoke above the sacrifice.
