Clouds high, wind cold, horizons picked clean by the wind. The orchard tiercel, at twelve o’clock, perched in his usual elm above scolding blackbirds and chaffinches. He flew up wind and hovered, fluttering in the strong grip of the wind, sky showing between all his wide-splayed wing and tail feathers. Tiring, he glided south, went low through the orchard and out across the fields. Hundreds of feeding jackdaws and woodpigeons went up wildly, rose high, scattered, left the place completely. Jackdaws spiralled away east, woodpigeons climbed out of sight to the west.
The tiercel returned to the orchard, and kept watch from tree-tops for an hour. When crows chased him from a poplar, he began to fly faster, with longer and more determined wing-strokes. From then on, he was much more active and alert. There is often a time in the peregrine’s day when he is becoming hungry, but is still reluctant or unready to hunt. If he is then disturbed, by man or by mobbing birds, he acts as though released from doubt, and begins to hunt at once.
After dodging away from the crows, he flew back to the elm where I had seen him earlier. He perched higher than before, leaning forward, flicking his head from side to side, restlessly shifting the grip of his feet. When he dived, and flowed down from the tree with wings uprising, his eyes were focused on something he had seen in the orchard. He flew carefully, softly, up wind, and glided slowly out across open ground. He stopped, hovered twenty feet up, then dropped gently down on his prey. He rose heavily and flew low between trees, carrying a red-legged partridge, one of a pair that had wandered too far from cover. I ran after him. He dropped the partridge, but went back for it immediately. His recovery of the prey was amazingly fast. He flicked down and up again like an eye blinking. Then he went out of the orchard and across the brook, flying with quick deep wing-beats, sinking nearly to the ground, rising again, sagging and rebounding like a woodpecker. A red-legged partridge weighs a pound to a pound and a half. The tiercel carried it for at least a mile at a speed between thirty and forty miles an hour.
