Along the southern shore of the estuary the water dwindled out in shallows of shining silver-blue. Widening strands of mud gleamed yellow in the sun. Three curlew landed on the mud, and stepped delicately to the water’s edge. They were uneasy, moving their heads from side to side like deer suspicious of the wind. They were coloured like sand, and mud, and shingle, and the sere grass of the saltings. Their legs were the colour of the sea.
A peregrine flew over, and hovered above the sea-wall where partridges were crouching in the grass. It was a lion-coloured tiercel, fierce and proud, looking down with luminous, dark, liquescent eyes. Where the wide wings joined the chest the feathers underneath were thickly mottled with diamond-shaped spots, like the fur of a snow leopard. The amber hawk glowed briefly in the sun, then flew inland.
I went up the long slope of fields to the east of the creek, and found a falcon peregrine resting in an oak at the top. Her feathers were wet. She was drying them after bathing in a flooded field. Her big chest was a blend of brown and tawny arrowheads, but the lower feathers were darker and less yellow, hanging thick and loose over the branch of the tree. Her gnarled feet shone like polished brass. Her head was never still. From her high perch she could see all movement in the fields and creeks and along the miles of ochre shore.
I was very close before she bothered to look at me with both eyes at once. I walked nearer. Without hesitation or fuss, she spread her wings and let the light breeze lift her from the tree. The long tapering primaries were stretched out, and the broad fan-like secondaries spread wide, their pale barred surfaces shimmering with air. Gliding and gently feathering forward, the large hawk rippled from the tree and rowed out on to the blue water-air above the creek. Turned and floated by the breeze, she drifted down the soft swath of the estuary sky to the bright sea-sky beyond.
Heavy clouds lowered, and the afternoon was dull. Mustard yellow in the dusky light, a short-eared owl rose silently from a ditch, floated up like a buoyant moon, with no sound but the soft rustle of the parting grass. Turning its cat-like face towards me, it flexed its mottled snakeskin wings across the marsh.
High tide brimmed grey and glossy in the creek. The short-eared owl beat slowly out above its own reflection, looking like two owls striving to meet through the water’s shining skin. One rose above the sea-wall as the other dived below.
