The sun had not yet risen. The sea was indistinguishable from the 
sky, except that the sea was slightly creased as if a cloth had 
wrinkles in it. Gradually as the sky whitened a dark line lay on the 
horizon dividing the sea from the sky and the grey cloth became 
barred with thick strokes moving, one after another, beneath the 
surface, following each other, pursuing each other, perpetually. 

As they neared the shore each bar rose, heaped itself, broke and 
swept a thin veil of white water across the sand. The wave paused, 
and then drew out again, sighing like a sleeper whose breath 
comes and goes unconsciously. Gradually the dark bar on the 
horizon became clear as if the sediment in an old wine-bottle had 
sunk and left the glass green. Behind it, too, the sky cleared as if 
the white sediment there had sunk, or as if the arm of a woman 
couched beneath the horizon had raised a lamp and flat bars of 
white, green and yellow spread across the sky like the blades of a 
fan. Then she raised her lamp higher and the air seemed to 
become fibrous and to tear away from the green surface flickering 
and flaming in red and yellow fibres like the smoky fire that roars 
from a bonfire. Gradually the fibres of the burning bonfire were 
fused into one haze, one incandescence which lifted the weight of 
the woollen grey sky on top of it and turned it to a million atoms 
of soft blue. The surface of the sea slowly became transparent and 
lay rippling and sparkling until the dark stripes were almost 
rubbed out. Slowly the arm that held the lamp raised it higher and 
then higher until a broad flame became visible; an arc of fire 
burnt on the rim of the horizon, and all round it the sea blazed 
gold. 



The light struck upon the trees in the garden, making one leaf 
transparent and then another. One bird chirped high up; there was 
a pause; another chirped lower down. The sun sharpened the 
walls of the house, and rested like the tip of a fan upon a white 
blind and made a blue finger-print of shadow under the leaf by the 
bedroom window. The blind stirred slightly, but all within was dim 
and unsubstantial. The birds sang their blank melody outside. 


'I see a ring,' said Bernard, 'hanging above me. It quivers and 
hangs in a loop of light.' 

'I see a slab of pale yellow,' said Susan, 'spreading away until it 
meets a purple stripe.' 

'I hear a sound,' said Rhoda, 'cheep, chirp; cheep chirp; going up 
and down.' 

'I see a globe,' said Neville, 'hanging down in a drop against the 
enormous flanks of some hill.' 

'I see a crimson tassel,' said Jinny, 'twisted with gold threads.' 

'I hear something stamping,' said Louis. 'A great beast's foot is 
chained. It stamps, and stamps, and stamps.' 

'Look at the spider's web on the comer of the balcony,' said 
Bernard. 'It has beads of water on it, drops of white light.' 

'The leaves are gathered round the window like pointed ears,' said 
Susan. 

'A shadow falls on the path,' said Louis, 'like an elbow bent.' 

'Islands of light are swimming on the grass,' said Rhoda. 'They 
have fallen through the trees.' 

'The birds' eyes are bright in the tunnels between the leaves,' said 
Neville. 



'The stalks are covered with harsh, short hairs,' said Jinny, 'and 
drops of water have stuck to them.' 

'A caterpillar is curled in a green ring,' said Susan, 'notched with 
blunt feet.' 

'The grey-shelled snail draws across the path and flattens the 
blades behind him,' said Rhoda. 

'And burning lights from the window-panes flash in and out on the 
grasses,' said Louis. 

'Stones are cold to my feet,' said Neville. 'I feel each one, round or 
pointed, separately.' 

'The back of my hand burns,' said Jinny, 'but the palm is clammy 
and damp with dew.' 

'Now the cock crows like a spurt of hard, red water in the white 
tide,' said Bernard. 

'Birds are singing up and down and in and out all round us,' said 
Susan. 

'The beast stamps; the elephant with its foot chained; the great 
brute on the beach stamps,' said Louis. 

'Look at the house,' said Jinny, 'with all its windows white with 
blinds.' 

'Cold water begins to run from the scullery tap,' said Rhoda, 'over 
the mackerel in the bowl.' 

'The walls are cracked with gold cracks,' said Bernard, 'and there 
are blue, finger-shaped shadows of leaves beneath the windows.' 

'Now Mrs Constable pulls up her thick black stockings,' said 
Susan. 

'When the smoke rises, sleep curls off the roof like a mist,' said 
Louis. 

'The birds sang in chorus first,' said Rhoda. 'Now the scullery door 
is unbarred. Off they fly. Off they fly like a fling of seed. But one 
sings by the bedroom window alone.' 



'Bubbles form on the floor of the saucepan,' said Jinny. 'Then they 
rise, quicker and quicker, in a silver chain to the top.' 

'Now Billy scrapes the fish-scales with a jagged knife on to a 
wooden board,' said Neville. 

'The dining-room window is dark blue now,' said Bernard, 'and the 
air ripples above the chimneys.' 

'A swallow is perched on the lightning-conductor,' said Susan. 

'And Biddy has smacked down the bucket on the kitchen flags.' 

'That is the first stroke of the church bell,' said Louis. 'Then the 
others follow; one, two; one, two; one, two.' 

'Look at the table-cloth, flying white along the table,' said Rhoda. 
'Now there are rounds of white china, and silver streaks beside 
each plate.' 

'Suddenly a bee booms in my ear,' said Neville. 'It is here; it is 
past.' 

'I burn, I shiver,' said Jinny, 'out of this sun, into this shadow.' 

'Now they have all gone,' said Louis. 'I am alone. They have gone 
into the house for breakfast, and I am left standing by the wall 
among the flowers. It is very early, before lessons. Flower after 
flower is specked on the depths of green. The petals are 
harlequins. Stalks rise from the black hollows beneath. The 
flowers swim like fish made of light upon the dark, green waters. I 
hold a stalk in my hand. I am the stalk. My roots go down to the 
depths of the world, through earth dry with brick, and damp earth, 
through veins of lead and silver. I am all fibre. All tremors shake 
me, and the weight of the earth is pressed to my ribs. Up here my 
eyes are green leaves, unseeing. I am a boy in grey flannels with a 
belt fastened by a brass snake up here. Down there my eyes are the 
lidless eyes of a stone figure in a desert by the Nile. I see women 
passing with red pitchers to the river; I see camels swaying and 
men in turbans. I hear tramplings, tremblings, stirrings round me. 

'Up here Bernard, Neville, Jinny and Susan (but not Rhoda) skim 



the flower-beds with their nets. They skim the butterflies from the 
nodding tops of the flowers. They brush the surface of the world. 
Their nets are full of fluttering wings. "Louis! Louis! Louis!" they 
shout. But they cannot see me. I am on the other side of the hedge. 
There are only little eye-holes among the leaves. Oh Lord, let 
them pass. Lord, let them lay their butterflies on a pocket- 
handkerchief on the gravel. Let them count out their tortoise- 
shells, their red admirals and cabbage whites. But let me be 
unseen. I am green as a yew tree in the shade of the hedge. My 
hair is made of leaves. I am rooted to the middle of the earth. My 
body is a stalk. I press the stalk. A drop oozes from the hole at the 
mouth and slowly, thickly, grows larger and larger. Now 
something pink passes the eyehole. Now an eye-beam is slid 
through the chink. Its beam strikes me. I am a boy in a grey 
flannel suit. She has found me. I am struck on the nape of the 
neck. She has kissed me. All is shattered.' 
