Even if she was one being the one she was being, even if she was being that one the one she was being, the one she had been being, even if she was being that one, that one she was being, even if in being that one the one she was being she was being that one, being the one she was being, even if she was being the one she was being, even if she was being that one, even if she was being that one she was one coming to be of a kind of a one, coming to be and being of a kind of a one, quite coming tobeofakindofaone,ofanotherkindofaone,ofthatkindofaone.

She was one being one. She was one having been that one. She was one going on being that one. She was one being one. She was one being of one kind of a one. She was one being that kind of a one. She was one being another kind of a one. She was one being another kind of a one. She was one being another kind of a one. She was one being another kind of a one.
She was one being one. She was one going on being that one. She was one being that one.
She was one being one. She was one always being that one. She was one always having being that one. She was one always going on being that one. She was one being one.

She was one being one and that thing, being that one was a thing that had come to be something. She was one being one and that thing, being that one was a thing that did then go on being existing. She was one being that one. She was being one.
She was one believing that thing, believing being the one she was being. She was one always believing that thing, always believing being the one she was being.

She was one who had been believing being the one she was being. She had been one believing being the one she was being. She is believing being the one she is believing. She has been believing this thing. She always has been, she always is believing being the one she is being.

She is one doing that thing, doing believing being the one she is being. She is one being the one she is being. She is one being one. She is one being that one.

She is one being the one she is being. She is one doing something. She is one being the one she is being. She is one being that one.

In doing something that one is being the one doing that thing. In doing something, the one doing the thing is the one being one doing that thing. This one is one doing something. This one is being the one doing the thing. That one is doing the thing. That one has been doing the thing. That one is dancing.

Meaning that thing, meaning being the one doing that thing is something the one doing that thing is doing. Meaning doing dancing is the thing this one is doing. This one is doing dancing. This one is the one meaning to be doing that thing meaning to be doing dancing.

This one is one having been doing dancing. This one is one doing dancing. This one is one. This one is one doing that thing. This one is one doing dancing. This one is one having been meaning to be doing dancing. This one is one meaning to be doing dancing.

This one being one meaning to be doing dancing, this one being one dancing, this one is one, this one is being that one. This one is one. This one is one being one. This one is being one and has been one being one having a kind of a way of being one believing anything, this one is being one and has been one being one having a kind of way of meaning anything. This one is one being one having a way of being one thinking of anything. This one is one having a kind of way of meaning everything.

This one is one being that one. This one is one and is that one and is one having had and having a way of being one believing something and meaning something and dancing. This is one being one having a way of dancing. This is one being that one.

This is one being one and having been one who is one being one showing being that one in being one changing and being that one, that kind of a one, the one that is the kind of a one that is meaning and believing the way this one is meaning and believing. This one is not changing. This one is changing, that is to say this one is looking like different ones of them who are ones who are believing and feeling and meaning the way this one is meaning and feeling and believing. This one is one who has been, who is meaning and feeling and believing. This one is one who is meaning. This one is one who has been meaning. This one is one who has a way of meaning. This one is one who has been one who is one meaning in the kind of way that some looking like this one are meaning. This one has a way of believing, this one has a way of feeling. This one has a way of feeling, this one has a way of believing and that is a way of feeling, and that is a way of believing that some have who sometimes look very much like this one looks some of the time. This one is one being one. This one is one dancing. This one has a way of believing and feeling and meaning. This one has a way of feeling, believing and meaning in dancing.

Being one having meaning, being one believing, being one dancing, being that one is what this one is one doing. This one is one who has meaning, this one is one who is dancing and is one having meaning in that thing in dancing. This one is one meaning to be having meaning in dancing. This one is one believing in having meaning. This one is one thinking in believing in having meaning.

This one is the one being dancing. This one is the one thinking in believing in dancing having meaning. This one is one believing in thinking. This one is one thinking in dancing having meaning. This one is one believing in dancing having meaning. This one is one dancing. This one is one being that one. This one is one being in being one being dancing. This one is one being in being one who is dancing. This one is one being one. This one is one being in being one.

This one is one changing. This one is one who has been, who always has been one being living in being that one. This one was one quite living in being that one. This one is one finishing living in being that one. This one is that one. This one has been that one. This one is one having been in the beginning been that one. This one has been going on being that one. This one is quite finishing being living in being that one.
This one is one who has been one being dancing. This one has been one beginning in being one being dancing. This one has been going on being living in being one being dancing. This one has been ending in being one going to be dancing. This one is finishing living in being one dancing.

This one is one not changing. This one is one coming to be one completely believing in thinking. This one is one beginning in being one coming to be believing. This one is going on in being one believing in meaning. This one is one going on thinking in believing in meaning. This one is going on believing in thinking in having meaning. This one is going on in believing, this one is one going on in believing in thinking, this one is one going on in believing in having meaning. This one is one going on. This one is one finishing in thinking in believing having meaning in dancing. This one is finishing in being one thinking in believing in meaning. This one is finishing in believing in thinking. This one is finishing in believing in having meaning. This one is finishing in believing. This one is finishing in thinking in believing. This one is finishing in believing.

This one is one who is that one, who is one dancing, who is one being one doing that thing, who is one being one believing in meaning. This one is one being one believing in thinking having meaning. This one is one being one believing that meaning is existing. This one is one meaning to be thinking in believing. This one is one believing in meaning.
She was not needing to be one believing in meaning being existing. She was not one needing this thing, needing being such a one. Needing being such a one, needing that meaning is existing is something, needing that meaning is existing is something that some one being one is having. Very many being one are having that thing, are having that needing of meaning being existing. Very many are being one having it that being that one they are the one the one that is needing that meaning is existing. This one is one being one having it that being that one she is one the one needing that meaning is existing.

She was one beginning being living and there were then others who were ones doing that thing, being living. Her mother was being living and was living then with four children. The mother was one having been married to some one and she was one then not needing that thing enough not needing that thing so that the one to whom she had been married could then marry another one.

She was living then with four children and all of them all the four children were being living then, were quite commencing then being ones being living. There were four children. The oldest one was a son, the second one was not a son, the third one was this one, the fourth one was a boy and all four of them were living then and the mother was living then and all five of them were living together then.

The mother came to be one believing that meaning was something that could be exciting to any one. She had come to be one knowing that meaning was completely interesting to her youngest one and to the one who was a little older than her youngest one. She had come to be forgetting that her oldest son had not any meaning, was not remembering that he was the oldest one, was not forgetting that he was being one having been in the family living. She had come to be remembering that her daughter, the one who had not been a son was one who could be supporting that meaning is existing, could be quite supporting some. She went on then being living and she was finishing in being one fading in meaning, fading and meaning and greeting meaning and fading and being then anything being faded and having meaning. She was then one not completely fading, she was then knowing that every one could be greeting meaning being existing. She was then still not yet being come to be a dead one.

She was fading then and asking any one to be one greeting meaning being existing. She was asking any one to do this thing. She was fading enough then. She was a dead one sometime.

She was not living with any children then when she was greeting meaning being existing. She was then not living with any child she had been having. All four were being living then. All four of them were being living and any one of them might be one being dancing. Any one of the four of them might then be one being dancing. The oldest one of them was not then being one dancing. He was not doing that thing, he was not dancing. The second one was one not then dancing, she was then completely knowing everything about all dancing. She was then being one living in dancing being existing. She was then living in this thing.

The third one was one dancing. She was quite doing that thing quite dancing. She was one dancing.
The fourth was one who in a way was one dancing. He was in a way being one doing that thing. He was one in a way completely meaning that thing completely meaning being one being dancing. He was in a way then dancing. He was one being one asking and answering in dancing being asking. He was one asking in dancing being existing. He was one answering in dancing being existing. He was one in a way dancing that is he was one coming to be one asking and answering. He was one asking. Dancing was existing. He was one answering.


Dancing was existing. He was one asking and answering. He was one meaning that thing meaning that dancing had come to be existing. He was one not dancing. He certainly was not dancing. Any one could be one dancing. He was not then dancing. He was then meaning the thing meaning that something is existing and that something is one thing. In a way he was doing nothing that was not something that was meaning something had been existing, that dancing had been existing. He could be one dancing. Dancing was existing.

She, Orta Davray, was one being of a kind of a one. That is to say she was one looking like some. She was changing. In the beginning she was one and then she was one having the same look as some other one and that one is of a kind of a one. Then she was changing and she was looking as another one was looking and that one was of a kind of a one. Then she was changing and she was looking as another one was looking and that one was of a kind of one. Then she was changing and she was looking like another one who was of a kind of a one. All four of them were quite different kinds of ones all four whom she was resembling. All four were in a way of a kind of a one. All four could be ones being ones needing believing that meaning is existing. All four could be ones expecting something from such thing. All four of them could be ones expecting something in meaning being existing. They were quite different ones these four of them.

She was one beginning being living and then she was one being that one being dancing. She was beginning then being one being existing. She was then being one and every one in her family living was needing then needing being completing that thing, completing her being one being dancing. She was then beginning being living. She was then one being like some and she was then one being existing, being one who was a young one and family living was being existing and she was then one completing that thing completing family living in being one being dancing and being the one each one was then completing as being one being dancing. She was being then quite like some. She was then feeling anything in any one being one completing her being one being dancing. She was then being one feeling anything in being one completing the family living in being one being dancing. She was then being one feeling anything in being one needing being that one, the one she was then.

She was then an older one, she was then like some. She was then dancing. She was then creating family living being existing. She was then completely creating that thing. She was then one of them one of all of them who were all ones who had been ones completing her being one being dancing.
She was then one being dancing. She was then being one exceeding in being that one. She was then being one who was being dominated by being one dominating anything. She was dancing then. She was exceeding everything. She was one dancing.
She was one who would be contradicting any one if she had not been one exceeding in affirming everything. She was one not contradicting every one. She was one contradicting. She could contradict any one. She was dancing. She was not contradicting she was dancing. She was exceedingly dancing. She was not contradicting every one. She was one dancing.
She was one meaning something in being one not contradicting every one. She was one meaning something in being one contradicting any one. She was one being one meaning in being one not contradicting any one. She was one having meaning in being one who was contradicting any one. She was one having meaning in being one who was not contradicting every one. She was one having meaning in dancing. She was one having meaning in exceeding in being the one being one dancing. She was having meaning in being that one the one contradicting every one. She was having meaning in being that one the one not contradicting every one. She was having meaning in being the one contradicting any one. She was having meaning in being the one not contradicting any one. Contradicting every one was existing. She was affirming dancing. She was exceeding in not contradicting every one. She was exceeding in not contradicting any one.

Dancing was what she was doing then. She was doing dancing. She was doing dancing and she was that one she was the one dancing. She was doing dancing and she was then one having meaning in being that one. She was then one being that one, she was then one being dancing, she was then one having meaning, she was then one dancing in being that one, she was then one being one dancing in being that one the one having meaning. She was dancing then. She was being that one. She was meaning that thing quite meaning being that one. She was dancing.

She was being that one. She was dancing. She was one needing meaning being existing. She was not then showing needing meaning being existing. Not anything then was showing anything in her being one then needing that meaning is existing.
She was thinking then. She was not then meaning everything in thinking. She was thinking then. She was dancing. She was thinking then and dancing had been existing. She was dancing then, she was thinking then, she was meaning everything, she was completely then being dancing, she was exceeding then exceeding in being that one the one then dancing.
She was dancing then. She certainly was thinking then. She had been thinking some. She was meaning everything then. She was completely then meaning everything then and thinking then thinking that meaning is existing and she was dancing then, quite dancing then. She was dancing then, she was meaning that thing, meaning dancing, she was dancing then, she was meaning thinking then, she was thinking then, she was meaning everything, she was dancing.
She went on then dancing. She was dancing again and again. She went on then being one being dancing. She went on then being that one. She went on then being one being dancing. She went on then being that one being that one being dancing. She went on dancing.

She was then one looking like some one. She was then one looking like some. She was then one looking like some one who was one needing to be thinking in meaning being existing. She was then one looking like some one and that one was one living in believing in thinking in meaning being existing. She was then one looking like some one and that one was one moving in every direction in believing meaning is existing. She was then one looking like one and that one was straining in being one thinking in believing that meaning is existing. She was looking like this one and she was dancing then, she was quite dancing then.

She was dancing then she was being strained then quite strained then by meaning being existing. She was strained then quite strained then in believing in thinking in meaning being existing. She was quite strained then. She was dancing then. She was quite moving in every direction in meaning being existing.
She was dancing, she was answering, she was carelessly domineering, she was domineering, she was dancing, she was answering.

She was dancing, she was that one then, the one dancing and answering, the one domineering and answering, the one having meaning in believing in thinking in meaning having the condition of being in a direction. She was one dancing she was one answering. She was that one the one dancing. She was that one the one dancing, the one answering. She was that one the one answering and dancing. She was that one the one dancing and answering. She was worn some then, she was not quite at all worn then, she was dancing then, she was answering then, she was moving in every direction in being one being worn some then. She was believing in thinking having meaning in meaning being existing.

She was thinking, she was believing, she was dancing, she was meaning. She was thinking, she was believing in thinking, she was thinking in believing, she was believing in dancing, she was thinking in believing in dancing. She was thinking in believing in dancing having meaning. She was believing in thinking in dancing having meaning. She was dancing in having meaning, she was having meaning in dancing, she was dancing, she was believing, she was thinking, she was answering, she was domineering, she was going on answering, she was worn with believing, she was careless in domineering, she was energetic in answering, she was believing in going in any direction, she went on in changing, she was simple in not going on questioning, she was moving changing, she was changing in connecting, she was seeing feeling in connecting dancing, she was feeling in careless domineering, she was needing dancing in believing.

She would be dancing in being that one the one having been dancing. She was that one the one having been dancing. She was dancing. She was dancing in being that one the one dancing. She was dancing.

She was dancing in being that one believing that thinking in having meaning in meaning being existing. She was dancing in this thing. She was dancing. She was dancing in moving in every direction being something having meaning. She was dancing in this thing. She was dancing. She was dancing, she was using then being one believing in meaning being existing. She was dancing in being one having feeling of anything being cheering. She was dancing in feeling that something had been coming. She was dancing in feeling that something having been coming is having meaning. She was dancing in feeling that feeling has a meaning. She was dancing in feeling that any one coming to be one being asked something would be one answering that meaning is existing. She was one dancing in feeling certain that some doing something are ones being certain that meaning is existing. She was one dancing in being one being that one being the one dancing then.
