The forgotten path is hidden beneath grass and campion and cow parsley. Above it, the hawthorn is warm with the white ash of its blossom. The song of the greenfinches is as slow and sleepy as the languid air, as the warm southern breeze. A cuckoo calls endlessly in the distance, a soft-echoing voice that faces and returns but comes no nearer. These sounds deepen the quiet haze of the may.
Under the splinters of the numbed hedge, a whitethroat sings. He creeps among the nettles, furtive, wandering, seen here and there like glimpses of a pouring snake, making the red campion flowers nod and quiver. He will be here throughout the summer, feeding, nesting, singing above his meagre territory, glad of the growth to come, this ragged remnant of a hedge.
The small woods of the upland plain, where sparrowhawks once nested, are a brown mist in the summer heat of the still afternoon. The white blossom of an orchard has risen in slow flight. It hovers low in the shimmering haze. I sit on a fallen tree at the edge of a pine wood. Many birds are singing in the clearings. Between the trees, the bluebells are like a film of lilac smoke that has no definite outline. The scent is much sharper and more palpable than the drifting colour. A garden warbler flies into a tree above. His whole body shakes with song. His throat leaps and flutters with the strangeness of it, the syrinx inhabited by an inexplicable joy of music. The feathers of the bird’s throat and nape part in dark rippling lines. The song flows on, with only brief pauses. The colour of the bluebells intensifies, the thick scent droning with a sleep of bees.
The pine wood is motionless, withdrawn. The vibrating wings of a bee stir the dry leaves and twigs beside the log. A faint breeze-lifted trail of sawdust whirls up and slowly sinks again as the bee drones higher and spirals away. Then nothing moves in the windless air. The brown mist of the distant woods is slowly becoming sky. The curved heads of the lost sparrowhawks seem to ascend from the horizon’s dusky haze. Their harsh calls ring again in the heat and the silence.