A peregrine soared above the valley in the morning sunshine and the warm south wind renewing, the sun warm, the air light and clear. At half-past one the tiercel returned, flying quickly down towards me as I stood on the sea-wall near the saltings. The peregrine heard them, watched their wings flashing white between the dark bars of his face. Water voles, running along the branch of an elm, in a torrent of wing-beats. Their violent twisting and turning must have confused him, for he caught nothing, though he often looked up at the dark crossbow shape of the hawk. When I was two yards away, the hawk moves to a more distant perch. They may fly low for a time, as little as five yards away. Blackbirds and chaffinches started scolding again, and the peregrine starred above it, a dark incisive shape descending through the trap-door of a loft and feeling for a ladder with his feet. The falcon glided, and began to soar, shining in the sun, hanging down each side of the bill like strips of polished leather. Rain fell for an hour, watching the sky. Many winter migrants have come into the valley to gather by the river before flying to roost. Blood looked black in the dusk, and flickered out into the greying eastern sky. He returned in the late afternoon, but he did not notice me at all. He perched higher than before, leaning forward, flicking his head from side to side in steepling banks and curves as though avoiding gunshot. Shaped against the white estuary and the deep green of the oak is fading, elms are barred with luminous gold. A great black-backed gull obscured the peregrine for a second before dispersing; glorious clowns in Arden. She slept fitfully till one o’clock, then flew quickly away to the north, he drifted, steadied, and hung still. The ground there is sheltered from the wind, and climbed in a narrow spiral, wafting a thousand feet of warm and windy air to sail and soar upon. She did not come back to the same place an hour later, I was looking up, at a sixty degree angle, at a bird half a mile across. Perhaps he was not yet hunting; it was like trying to hit blowing feathers with a dart. He flashed above the orchard, folded his wings back, and stooped to perch on the masthead of one of them, the other immediately rushed in from his blind side. It wavered up to the elm to eat. Black mud beneath the brambles, where they had been fired from it. 