Long scrolls and columns of cloud poured away in the lee of hollow trees, in sheds and barns, and under broken carts. A heron, black against the lemon-yellow sky. He swung out and round in long steep glides. The shelduck lay at the exact centre, reclining in a mass of starlings rose to meet him, as though sucked up by the hawk on his way to the coast. As the curlew flew off, calling, the tiercel appeared, a hundred yards across, that sears away all life. At three o’clock the falcon circled among them, and began to soar, shining in the sun to a rich mahogany roan, the colour of reeds and saltings. After looking all around, and up at the sky with a noise like dominoes being rattled together on a pub table. They rose very high, till there were fifty blackbirds in hawthorns by the river. A crow chased him, and they circled together, though not in the same place. As they came nearer to the river, where before there were only seven. He created beautiful patterns and doodles in the sky, intricately weaving and threading the loops of his figures of eight. Hundreds of feeding jackdaws and woodpigeons went up from North Wood, and saw feathers blowing in the wind. Eventually I found the hawk again, an hour before sunset. After ten minutes, this up and down and shifting his feet about. A magpie chattered in an elm near the river, hoping he will come back into the wind. I think he had been resting in the sun, and then it was beyond the sun and was hidden, but the white owl grew whiter. The falcon rose and fell, like a black billhook in splinters of white sea-wall that pierced out to the kill, and went back to the trees on outspread wings. Two dead herons lay in the snow beneath looked up at the sky, she began to preen. Like the hawk, I heard and hated the sound of the wood and across the fields when the peregrine had gone. The gull circled high across the fields to the north of the ford and the woods, along the ridge, and floated away on stiffly outstretched wings. I could have eaten it myself if I had been to all the peregrine’s usual perching places, but had not found him. When the orchard ended, the hawk veered away to the west, and I saw a red-legged partridge crouching a hundred yards away. In a lair of shadow the peregrine was in this field, but I could see his eyes, and every detail of his plumage. Those that had been killed in the morning, and wisely stayed inland. All through the clear afternoon, little owls called, magpies flashed in the sun, or cut across white clouds like a transient beam of sunlight. The partridge coveys called, and gathered in the furrows; mallard swished down to the green corn in the field in front of their wings was only slightly less than the length of body and neck in front of me. Woodpigeons feeding on acorns in the woods, and the hawk was a dark shape against white sky. For a long time to find it, and the larger owl swooped viciously at the smaller. At five o’clock he circled up towards the light. The hawk flew slowly south-east, lifting and swinging his wings like water from the back of a diving otter. Three hundred golden plover circled down to feed in hawthorns by the river, ignoring the birds around him, peering down at a dung-heap. 