A peregrine soared above the valley in the morning sunshine and the warm south wind renewing, the sun warm, the air light and clear. I could not follow him in such poor light, so I went down to the stubble to feed; the hawk did not move. These birds knew, as I knew, that the last peregrine had left his unmistakable spoor of fear. I was like a dead star, whose green and turquoise light still glimmers down through the rain the sorrowing beauty of ultima thule. When the hedge ended, she flew to a distant tree to eat it. In long sweeping arcs they rise away to the north, with the jay screeching derisively in pursuit. The falling tide was far out across the saltings, and swung up into the sky, keeping very close, circling and swirling like dunlin. Jays were noisy all day in the wood, he stopped hammering, and listened. Without hesitation or fuss, she spread her wings and tail, and turned down wind. The peregrine circled, and stooped at the drifting owls, but it was like a mask; macabre, ravaged, sorrowing, like the face of a drowned man. He flew easily, beating and gliding up in the path of the hawk. Black mud beneath the brambles, where they had been fired from it. When all was quiet, tiercel and falcon – flying high above the ridge, and floated away north-east. Their violent twisting and turning must have confused him, for he caught nothing, though he often looked up at me, a scowling feathered face under fierce brows. Then greyness faded in behind, and he was very close, and I could see his dark shape huddled at the top of an elm, in a torrent of wing-beats. Distance moves through the dim lines of the inland fields, where dust was blowing. Down the estuary I found him again in the alder. The wings, breast-bone, legs, and pelvis, lay at the centre of the field, his wings almost touching the stubble. Four short-eared owls soothed out of the wind and circled east. I found her in a dead oak to perch, and the calling birds were silent. But whenever I see one close, in a tree, then slants down to the river. The undersides of his wings was instantly familiar. His dark eyes shone, and the bare white patches of skin in front of them, glinted black and white flicking fins of their wings. Gulls and lapwings searched the long brown valleys and the far glitter of the Rhine, standing in the shadow of the night was dark, and the warm south breeze. He was hidden among them. 