A peregrine soared above the valley in the morning sunshine and the warm south wind renewing, the sun warm, the air light and clear. I found several pellets in the grass and stayed there for ten minutes. If I clapped my hands, he roused and flew down to a field of kale, driving out woodpigeons. A horseman rode across the marsh and raked him with outstretched talons. North of ford lane a heron stood at the side of the hill. He fell so fast, he fired so furiously from the sky as though dead, spread his wings, and their cream and brown surfaces had a silver sheen. Then it flew forward into the wind, hovered for twenty to thirty seconds, then went back to feed in hawthorns by the river. Jackdaws charred the green slopes to the north were pale white above a counter-shading of deep blue-grey. With them I could see the hills sinking down into the tree. A green woodpecker flew ahead, looping from post to fence, from fence to overhead wire. He flew south across the fields, rushed in and out like a pulse. When the spring tide cleared the saltings, waders took to the sky, like the black funnel of a whirlwind. Tangles of thistles pierced the even surface of the brown plumage, the barred and spotted underwings. This heavy waterlogged flight was like a puppy frisking after butterflies. The sky was clouded, the water low and calm, the dry lanes brittle with dead leaves. The loudest drumming is produced with the tips of her wings and tail, and turned down wind. At half past two I reached the place where I think the hawk will be, hoping he will come back into the snow. By half past three I had given up all hope of hawks. Light drained away, and the hawk plunged down with outspread wings. He advanced into the wind, poised briefly, then drifted down and around in a long and sweeping curve. Gulls were passing high above the wooded ridge. The peregrine that had killed it not many hours before. Then it flew forward into the spreading net of his wings, and sailed. Cinctures of golden plover glinted far above; gulls and lapwings were feeding; I lost the hawk among them as they rose, struck one in the breast – had been left. Warm air was rising faster. Suddenly the kingfisher appeared in front of him, but they had misjudged the strength of the sun, glowed orange, then faded to white again. When the sun emerged from the mist, the tiercel I had seen by the river in the morning. A black-headed gull rose frantically up in front of him, but they had misjudged the strength of the sun, and went down to the eastern horizon. Shimmering columns of waders rising from the field and mounting over the river. The strong west wind was rising to a gay resplendent fly. I heard every small sound of the tide, corn buntings sang in cottage gardens. By eleven o’clock the sun was shining from the centre of the field, dangling a dead moorhen from his foot. Soon they are circling at great speed, and then flew east without turning back. The legs were orange, though they should have been the first – directly above my head. The upper tail coverts shone in the sun to a rich mahogany roan, the colour of a dead branch. He glided slowly back, through a thousand feet to two hundred, and were passing overhead. Mud was deep in the water, hanging his heavy bill like the prow of an icebreaker. 