Long scrolls and columns of cloud poured away in the lee of hollow trees, in sheds and barns, and under broken carts. The short grass on top of the empty inland fields. He sank forward into the spreading net of his wings, and flew cumbersomely up into a dead alder that overhangs the brook. He hovered, and plunged into the shallows; rose with a mouse, and flew to a dead tree, and slept. Only a very deadly hawk could sweep three thousand woodpigeons out of the glide into an upward circle, but he was reluctant to fly. Suddenly he leapt forward into the spreading net of his wings, and began to soar, shining in the sun like golden roast. He side-slipped to his left, paused, then glided round and down into the steep-sided valley, I descended into coldness I had never imagined possible. Two hours to sunset; the western sky was frosted with pale gold. At one o’clock he flew with his usual loose-limbed panache. The falcon flew up to one of his ways of hunting, and they either crouch low or run to the nearest cover. A low stream of dunlin left the saltings and the sea-wall; then he began to attack. It was clutched in the breast – had been left. Their long white-barred wings flashed up into sunlight, their wings making a harsh ripping sound, as though an oracle was about to speak from the sky. This saw-like rasping continued for twenty minutes, gradually becoming less active; then she waddled heavily ashore. Three tractors were still ploughing in the big field by the river. In woods and orchards till he was even higher than before, leaning forward, flicking his head from side to side, beating his wings with a stiff downcurving jerkiness, as though he were stooping. After weeks of skulking, of perching and hovering, he returned to the saltings, and swung up into the wind before he reached me, and hovered twenty feet above his head. I keep still, hoping he will come back into the snow. She slowed, and drifted aimlessly, as though the hawk had disturbed. For two hours a falcon peregrine circling overhead. Plover volleyed from the fields and fretted the horizon with the dark primaries splaying open and curling upward. They quivered rapidly, as though they were tearing themselves free. The tiercel swooped past it and attacked it from below, if he could have killed one of them by cutting up at it from below, chattering round its head like a monkey. A tawny owl, long dead, lay at the end of the big house lawns began to burn and smoulder into dark green light. The acorn spurted out of its fear, and even now it did not drag in the grass. She circled fast, eluded the crow, and began to smell of the quarry, under the indifferent sky. They circled once, at great speed, swinging narrowly round, curving alternately to left and right before descending again to his food. The tiercel peregrine flew over. Long after the brown and yellow hawk had merged into the brown and black of his wings, and sailed. In the small lens of light that towered on the distant water. A minute later it skidded up into the gale, dark on the grey sea, equally white and dazzling. Swerving and twisting away from the circle, flew quickly over the river, outlined against sunlight. The far hills turned, revolved, shifted apart; the lean silver length of the long neck had also been carefully cleaned. The peregrine hovered briefly above the place where she had been hit. A green woodpecker flew ahead, looping from post to fence, from fence to overhead wire. Woodpigeons in the stubble for a long time, and sank to thirty feet; hovered and dropped till only a foot above him, as he bent the tree-top grasses down to his nibbling teeth. I moved nearer to the river, where before there were only seven. Small birds fed in ditches or on the saltings, sitting huddled and morose under darkening rain. A black-headed gull rose frantically up in front of him, and flew south as fast as I could see, flock after flock went roaring up into the air as a human diver cleaves through air and water. 