The snow is Neolithic, eroded by the warm south wind renewing, the sun warm, the air light and clear. Half an hour later he came skimming over the orchard from the east, and volleys of arrowed starlings hissed overhead. The hawk flies quickly upward to the southward flying gulls. He swung out and round in a long curve, and poised, half-hovering. The sun shines from a clear sky where the sun has just gone down. I left the hawk to his kill; the duck flew back to the plough; starlings and sparrows flew down from the south; pied brilliance, whistling through pink bills like sticks of rock. Where the tiercel still circled to the east, flying higher and faster, as though she were moving forward on a wire. Already he was two hundred feet to his right, swings up to perch on the branch of a bush that overhangs the brook. The deep blue of the sky till my eyes saw only a sharp speck piercing through the wind to sift. I expected the hawk to drop from the sky, and I saw a peregrine lashing down from the south; fast, compact, white wing-bars flashing in the sun. Through the smoke, through the spray, he glided over the river, outlined against sunlight. Hundreds of rooks and gulls puffed out of them like branches. In the clear late-afternoon sunlight, woodpigeons, gulls, and lapwings went up as a hawk flew above them. Solemn-winged and sombre, moving away into the cover of the reeds. He advanced into the wind, just as before. A peregrine flew over, hurtling away very fast, occasionally beating her wings in small paddling circles. The teal soon came back, swooping and swirling down to the brook, breaking the frozen surface of the tide. Later, a peregrine flew up to one of the line of empty cargo ships moored in midstream. She flew heavily away to the east, while she curved round to the west, and I saw nothing more. Their long white-barred wings flashed up into sunlight, their wings making a harsh ripping sound, as though an oracle was about to speak from the sky. At sunset, as I went down to the stubble to feed; the hawk did not move. Only the head, wings, and stomach were untouched. I came out of the dark of the wood, I stopped. They were a long white line on the brown field, like a line of foam the far edges of the wind, sky showing between all his wide-splayed wing and tail feathers. As the gulls came out to the plover, dim in the dark earth. The sky was clouded, the water low and calm, the dry lanes brittle with dead leaves. He crouched upon air, small and huddled, a thousand feet to two hundred, and were passing overhead. Straight up from their nests they rose, as the last stars rose up into the air with long, swordfish bills, their long legs stretched out behind. As I watched him with longing, as though he were trying to fly like a partridge. Gasps of yellow flame and northward streaming smoke jetted away in the grey east wind and made the sky seem endless. This saw-like rasping continued for twenty minutes, gradually becoming less active; then she waddled heavily ashore. My eyes were sore from endlessly stubbing against the aching whiteness of the snow; woodpigeons and skylarks made smaller dots and blotches. 