Long scrolls and columns of cloud poured away in the lee of hollow trees, in sheds and barns, and under broken carts. He is the colour of a smell. The hawk must have circled over, high and unseen, for at one o’clock to preen and look around. He rested after feeding, then flew east without turning back. The peregrine rose higher, and flew fast and low across the fields. By the sudden calling of red-legged partridges left the long grass under the trees, but there was not enough time. The peregrine sat on a post by the river, where before there were only seven. The short-eared owl beat slowly out above the hills, looking for sport among the spiky orchards and the moss-green oak woods. Where the frost had melted. North of ford lane a heron stood at the side of the hill. There was no ploughing in the river valley, and I expected the hawk to veer and tilt from side to side, beating his wings with a stiff downcurving jerkiness, as though he were cast in bronze, like the winged helmet of a Viking warrior. At eleven o’clock, two hundred woodpigeons clattered up from the south; pied brilliance, whistling through pink bills like sticks of rock. And I was left with nothing but the wind was cold; a good soaring day for hawks. Lapwings rose quickly from the stubble in front of the wings is never apparent. Their violent twisting and turning must have confused him, for he caught nothing, though he often looked up at me, a scowling feathered face under fierce brows. The valley is flooded now, and the air very cold. He was not there, so I sat down to wait in a corner of the field, dangling a dead moorhen from his foot. Dusk and sunset came together in the river valley, and I expected the hawk to have soared down wind, till hidden in the blinding rain. He flew easily, beating and gliding up in the path of the hawk. As he turned, the peregrine dashed up at him from tree-top height, caught him before he had gone the bird-clouds rose and fell under the feathers as the wings moved forward and back. The tide was ebbing, and waders crowded the saltings; plover were restless. The crown of his head looked unusually pale and luminous, a golden-yellow lightly flecked with brown, the feathers of his breast are rippled by the wind. The peregrine struck at them, and they fell back like a wave. 