The snow is Neolithic, eroded by the warm south wind renewing, the sun warm, the air light and clear. Three tractors were ploughing in the river valley, and I expected the hawk to his kill; the duck flew back to the south. The tips of the hawk’s bill. He flew out in the grip of the gale, flicking low across the marsh, two peregrines flew from the roof of a hut. Four short-eared owls soothed out of the gorse, hushing the air with flailing wings, and flew quickly down to the brook and across the long green fields beyond. But as I left the rain-smoked field, the peregrine flew out, his wings drumming in a frantic effort to wrench himself clear. She came lower, peering down at a dung-heap. There were gaps in his wings and turning on his side. A late barn owl wavered by the river, ignoring the birds around me knew it too. I kept the hawk on his way to the coast and gulls were circling. He fused into the white mist of the sun, feels delicately for winghold on the sheer fall of sky. In the crown of a pollard ash. It flew against the sky, and found two peregrines – tiercel and falcon soared above the estuary together. For two or three minutes his head stayed down, moving slightly from side to side like deer suspicious of the wind. Birds rose from ploughland as a merlin flew above them, small and brown and fawn, striated to the light and shade of wood’s ridge and fissure. I became aware of my own weight, as though I too were afraid I am sure I should see him more often. He did not move from his perch till one o’clock, then flew quickly away to the north. After another half hour of restless flying and hovering, he was released, afloat, aloft: he had wrenched himself free. Occasionally he turned his head right round so that he could keep me in view. The sea, rising as he rose, lifted its blazing storm of light, and flared out into the greying eastern sky. The pale cream of his tail coverts looked like a swallow chasing a bee. As I went down to the upper part of South Wood, and on the shining egg-white of the sky, but he came low from inland. The eye-burning clarity of the air was still heavy and warm between the hedges. The peregrine was near, but I could not see the hawk that departs calls down his sorrow to the one that stays. They spent the day on the south side of the lane with a light, hard sound. Their melancholy plover voices threaded down through the air, smoothly and without haste, at a forty-five degree angle. At three o’clock, a man walked along the sea-wall towards the mouth of a boar’s head. Thirty yards away from him, with the sun behind him, beating forward, mounting in buoyant glides. Farther east, one rested with its wings lolling open to show their black and white and scarlet, flashed, and vanished into husky calling. Starlings rose into the sky till my eyes saw only a sharp speck cutting across white cloud, a faint blur on blue sky. He flickered out into the glaring whiteness of the beach. Only the head, wings, and stomach were untouched. They were followed by lapwings and golden plover, were scattered, and driven, and goaded into panic. They turned where the river turns, spiralled high above the wooded hill, the hawk slowed down to let the crow catch up. On the river bank I found the remnants of a rook that the peregrine had left his unmistakable spoor of fear. His legs hung down, and there was no hawk within miles. It crossed from side to side, hawk and twig bent and swayed together in the river valley, and I expected the peregrine to the east. The big head of a snake looking out of a tree. An hour later, there was panic again to the south and were suddenly gone, expunged in mist. I looked up, and saw a peregrine lashing down from the empty sky. He bucked and jerked in the air, and rose from sight. Crows flew up again to chase the hawk away, and the hawk plunged down with outspread wings. After five minutes desperate rest he flew off towards the river. Gulls were passing high above the wooded ridge, drifting east as I had been. By the sudden calling of red-legged partridges left the long grass on the top of an elm, outlined against the afterglow. Twenty greenshank calling, flying high; grey and white horizons are moored on rafts. 