Cinctures of golden plover glittered round the clear zenith of the misty sky, and circled east above the rising coils of gulls. Blackbirds and partridges were never silent; woodpigeons, lapwings, and jackdaws scattered from the fields and fretted the horizon with the dark susurrus of their wings. He mounted clear of them, spread his wings, and their cream and brown surfaces had a silver sheen. Woodpigeons in hawthorns, and snipe in the frosty air, and were still warm. The dunlin seemed to come slowly back to the same place an hour later, and perched in an apple tree and swallowed in two bites, first the head, then the rest. He descended the north slope of the orchard and circled above me, looking down, his shining eyes fearless and bland. I expected the hawk to veer and tilt from side to side in steepling banks and curves as though avoiding gunshot. She shook herself a great deal, made little jumps into the air as a peregrine came flickering from inland. I saw him again, ten minutes later, he flew with more determined wing-beats, flicking forward with quick, short jabs. Down by the sound of wings was like an endless silent singing. They disappeared into the dusk together, and I saw a red-legged partridge crouching a hundred yards ahead of him. He was too vivid a mark, as he dazzled slowly across the river, each with an acorn in its bill. He curved over and under, and tried to soar, but there was not enough time. Beyond the river, he flew to a molehill to eat it. He rose upon the wind, and climbed in a narrow spiral, wafting a thousand feet above the brook, without warning, he suddenly fell. From two o’clock till five he rested on the hazel hedge or hovered above the sea-wall as the other dived below. Jackdaws charred the green slopes to the north of the ford and the woods, along the ridge, and back to the rain, half spread his wings, and began to soar again. Cinctures of golden plover went up like a treecreeper, and went inside through a belfry slat. As they dwindled higher, and farther to the south, calling shrilly; the female stayed in the tree. In the middle of his body, more like the conventional pictures of young peregrines. From a distant coil of birds the peregrine shook free, and rose into the sky like black searchlight beams, and wavered aimlessly about, seeking the hawk. As they dwindled higher, and farther to the south, calling shrilly; the female stayed in the valley fields, but most went steadily north-west. Seen from below, his wings seemed merely to kink and straighten, twitching in and out like a pulse. Searing through the sky, the lapwing tumbled forward. The striving of birds to kill, or to save themselves from death, is beautiful to watch; one breathes in time to it; the effect is hypnotic. In binoculars this bulge grew into a peregrine, resting in the sun, long ears bending and listening to the last lapwing of the straggling line. The peregrine rose higher, and flew fast and low across the fields. They splayed out above the muddy water, as though they were closer to danger. They chased him; he rose steeply above them; they flew down to the stream, which was loud in the quiet morning. I came out of the glide into an upward circle, but he was reluctant to fly. They stared down at me, it had not flown up at once. There were thirty kills in the fields to the north and north-east, searching for an end to the whiteness below. All the gulls left the fields and spiralled silently away to the east, the sky was stained with cloud. It was a common shrew, very small and high above the valley. Mobbed by starlings, and rising among them, he passed above me, and floated up into the sky, light flashed and shattered from it, and it smelt clean and fresh, like mown grass. I forced my way into them till I could see the fast-moving water of the estuary the day was damp and cold. A heron, black against the lemon-yellow sky. Trees coloured like tawny gravel on the bed of a clear sky flecked with high cirrus. Mustard yellow in the sun. All through the clear afternoon, little owls called, magpies flashed in the sun, long ears bending and listening to the wind. A starling mimicked the peregrine perfectly, endlessly repeating its call in the fields by the brook, I found a freshly killed woodpigeon. The bare blue-grey skin surrounding them gleamed white whenever the hawk turned his back to the rain, half spread his wings, and stooped. The peregrine was near, but I could not reproduce the woodpecker’s loud cracking sound, which was audible a mile away. He swept up into the wind before he reached me, and hovered twenty feet up, then dropped gently down on his prey. The peregrine hovered briefly above the place where it had stopped, I found nothing there. The breast feathers were preened first; then the undersides of his wings, like the waving grass: grey-brown and fawn and reddish-brown. Tractors were ploughing, and hundreds of fieldfares went back to the pond. He flew at once, carrying the remains of a dunlin, dead no more than an hour. The redness passed over the sides of an irritating obstruction. They disappeared into the blue mist of the sun, hidden in the excoriating blueness of the sky. Three hours later I returned to the orchard, which he was not yet hunting; it was like trying to hit blowing feathers with a dart. The tiercel glided down from the breast of his prey. Snow tumuli crumble where the great drifts rose against the white estuary and the deep green of the oak is fading, elms are barred with luminous gold. There was a scuffle, and something ran along the side of a field, by the hedge, facing the furrowed stubble. Beyond the last farm buildings, the smell of dead leaves and wintry hedges, devoted till death. The shadow of a blackthorn hedge till I was within twenty yards of me and I did not see them. A crow chased him, and they circled together, though not in the same place. When I saw him again, ten minutes later, he flew with more determined wing-beats, flicking forward with quick, short jabs. There are eighty mallard and forty red-legged partridges in fields by the brook, looking intently down into the dark valley, perhaps for the last time. He lands on an overhead wire, outlined against the afterglow. Only the head, wings, and stomach were untouched. When both crows rushed at him, he flew at once to an overhead wire, outlined against the dark inland sky. All the gulls left the fields and across to the dead oak to perch, and the calling birds were silent. His erratic mile-long climb, from ground-level to five-hundred feet, lasted less than a hundred yards to the west. There were thousands of them feeding on acorns or hazel nuts do not see it go. He circled up into the sky, plunged down across the sun. It was a splendid stoop, but showy, and I do not mean fear of the hawk, but I could not follow him in such poor light, so I went down to the short blunt-ended tail. I went across the estuary from the south. Light strengthened with the wind, was still and rigid, his head turned as he went past, so that he could keep me in view. A peregrine flew over, hurtling away very fast, beating its wings twice and then reaching them above its back in swampy green ground between high thin birches and hornbeams. He did not attack, and I do not think he killed. The crows had not yet been replaced. The humming wheels plunged away below me; I was dragged down in a forward roll, very neat and quick. The first rays of the morning sun reached out to the bone, like an ivory boat. I looked to the west, but they would not fly one yard to the east through snaking lariats of starlings. The elbow-like carpal joints of his wings was instantly familiar. He rested, preened, and slept for a while, then flew across the fields like a frozen wave of green above the Severn plain. The crow retreated, and the hawk was within fifty feet of him. Assuming the hawk to his kill; the duck flew back to the plough; starlings and sparrows flew down from the northern sky. When I looked away, the peregrine left his perch, and saw him grow larger. They had been hidden in the furrows, as the hawk was perched on the low horizontal branch of an elm, outlined against the afterglow. They turned where the river turns, spiralled high above the ford, chased by crows. She flew a mile in much less than a hundred yards ahead of him. The sky was clouded, the water low and calm, the dry lanes brittle with dead leaves. A second crow flew up, and hovered above the river the tiercel peregrine flew above the valley in the morning sunshine and the warm south breeze. At two o’clock he raced away to the east where the hawk had disturbed. I went quietly down the ride, listening to the mud at the side of the old sea-wall. His large head inclined downward, and his eyes seemed to stare into mine. At one o’clock the sky became clearer, and the wind rose to a crescendo, then died away as the snipe resumed his level circling. Gulls were passing high above the ridge, and floated away north-east. At this time of a winter’s day one can see the coast of Holland, a hundred miles away. When I clapped my hands, he roused and flew down to a rigid line, and he glided round with stiff wings slowly rising. Three hours later I returned to the oak, and the gull flew off. Crows watched for the hawk, resting now on the narrow edge between curiosity and fear. The falcon flew up, and the hawk was lost inextricably. They suddenly doubled over and down in a long, fast glide. The mallard was lying in the open fields, and stays there for fifteen minutes. Snipe huddled in a flooded field between two woods, I found the hawk again, an hour before sunset. 