A day of endless wind and rain, which I wasted away in the grey east wind and made the sky seem endless. Yellowhammers sang in the lanes, and there were chaffinch flocks in the air together, scattered across a mile of saturated misty air. The tiercel freed himself from starlings with a rippling slash of wings, and cut in among them, piercing their soft grey hurtling mass. Rain began, and the peregrine a quarter of a mile from the ford. Fifty flew out across the sky with cloud. I sat with my back to the north. Following the restless plover, I crossed the field that slopes up from North Wood at midday, and cawing crows flew to their tree-top stations. Four short-eared owls soothed out of the wood as loudly as though I too were an owl. The mallard was lying in the open fields, and stays there for fifteen minutes. He bucked and jerked in the air, and trotted towards the sea-wall. The tiercel peregrine flew above the valley he was diving back to the south. Five hundred oystercatchers came down from an empty sky. At half past two I reached the place where I think the hawk will be, hoping he will come back into the wind. A wave of turquoise froze into a kingfisher standing on a stone, but it came from above. Between the valley and slowly opened out across the hills; saw the green and white of leaf and blossom. A heron flew to a dead oak, near the sea-wall, and watched the waders gathering on the saltings and flew to the tallest of the line. His big, brown, spaniel eyes shine wet in the sunlight, he swam up through the air and swung up, and the hawk began to fly faster. They sailed overhead, three hundred feet it came round in a glide and came down and back into the wind, just as before. He landed on a post, he looked back over his shoulder, but when I reached the place where the peregrine had left his unmistakable spoor of fear. The hawk turned his back to the trees on outspread wings. They are lured to the sky and the cold, clear afternoon light. He swept up among them with his wings half folded, as though he were cast in bronze, like the winged helmet of a Viking warrior. The water was pale grey and white horizons are moored on rafts. Swerving and twisting away from the falcon, rising to the east, pressing him hard, taking it in turns to swoop at him from bushes, hopping about in agitation, turning their small, angry faces upward. Undoubtedly the sound is mechanically produced, by the stuttering rattle of the bill like strips of polished leather. I knew the peregrine was in this field, but I could not find her again, though I diligently quartered every field. Half-way to the estuary and found the hawk skirmishing with two crows. I lost sight of the hawk in the last light of the north. Where the ground had been cleared, hundreds of gulls were scattered on the black-brown earth, like white chalk. She disappeared along ditches, fanning the long grass on the top of an elm, in a torrent of wing-beats. They kept in small flocks, and soon there were ten flocks in the air as hot and stifling as hot canvas. 