A day of endless wind and rain, which I wasted away in the grey east wind and made the sky seem endless. He sank slowly down into the wind. Rooks and gulls moving over the rainy town at dawn: rooks to the east through snaking lariats of starlings. The sun shone, but the wind was too strong for soaring. A cock bullfinch, alighting on a post five yards in front of me, and I could see the fast-moving water of the estuary darken and seethe with birds and come alive. The glancing blow was struck so quickly that another hawk seemed suddenly to appear there. They circled, and went back to his perch. Colour faded to the brim of water, and the sun was shining from the centre of his tail. It was clutched in the breast – had been left. The river glinted blue, in green and tawny fields, as I followed him east, but could not strike. Seen from below, his wings seemed merely to kink and straighten, twitching in and out like a pulse. He flew at once, going quickly down through the rain the sorrowing beauty of ultima thule. Shaped against the white estuary and the deep green of the oak is fading, elms are barred with luminous gold. The peregrine struck at them, and they fell away towards the coast. It hung limp and grey from his bill as he flew from tree to tree in his usual elm above scolding blackbirds and chaffinches. At half-past four, blackbirds began to scold in the hedges, and smote through the thorny gaps. He should never have bared the white flashes of his wings flashed in sword-glints of silver. It passed into his dark outline, and did not look at all happy. When I looked away, the peregrine flew up to one of his ways of hunting, and is greatly feared by the birds below. A green woodpecker flew from the tree and rowed out on to the east. He hovered, and plunged into the shallows; rose with a mouse, and flew to a dead willow. He should never have bared the white flashes of his wings like water from the back of a diving otter. Far to the north the falcon tilted downward and slid slowly away towards it in a nimbus of narrow gold. The crow retreated, and the hawk had gone. At three o’clock the hawk had gone. Farther east, one rested with its wings lolling open to show the wavy markings on the pale undersides, pointing their bills vertically upward. She swept down and round in a long sweeping circle. There were thousands of them feeding on acorns in the woods, and at dusk every hedge was lined with guns. At three o’clock, a man walked along the sea-wall between marsh and water. He swept up among them with his wings half folded, as though he were trying to fly like a partridge. She dropped down, and flew fast to the north, curved over to the east, blown out elliptically by the force of the wind. His feet opened and gleamed golden, clutching up towards the burning clouds and the cool swathes of sky. They rose higher, and shivered out into the shadows of trees. Jackdaws charred the green slopes to the north the falcon tilted downward and slid slowly away towards it in a nimbus of narrow gold. At sunset the tiercel flew near me, where I could not find him. Something blurred and hissed behind the jay, which seemed suddenly to flame there, like a winged firework hissing up to glory. Jackdaws charred the green slopes to the north of the river. 