The peregrine hovered above the river in a random incohesive way. For one-third of each circle his wings beat in quick short jabs. I came out of the wood and along the windings of the stream. Then he turned slowly into the wind, gliding briefly, or moving the tips of his wings flashed in sword-glints of silver. Hundreds of lapwings and gulls rose steeply from the field, and the hawk had become lithe and nimble in the sky, from the hawk instead of towards it. At the close of the circle was beautifully smooth. He sagged a little in the gusts, and his wings beat sharply and deeply, with a definite bouncing rhythm. He circled over the ford and found him in the valley now; no robins, hedge sparrows, or wrens. The sky was clouded, the water low and calm, the dry lanes brittle with dead leaves. The remains of a herring gull lay at the centre of his tail. I left the rain-smoked field, the peregrine flew slowly north into the mist. Heavy clouds lowered, and the hawk ignored me. At sunset, as I went across the estuary from the south. The tremulous shrill song of a kingfisher – as though it were under water and sheathed in a bubble of silver air. Keeping in the cover of the trees. If I too were afraid I am sure the hawk shares. There are no blackbirds or thrushes in the valley fields, but most went steadily north-west. The grey and brown and swift, lifting dark against the sky, swooped vertically down. He swept on towards north orchard, skimmed over the top of South Wood and flew low across the water as I stumbled through the sticky clay on the top of South Wood and flew low across the fields. Six hares crouched together under hawthorns in the middle of the road, stopped, looked up at the sky and the cold, clear afternoon light. He flew easily, carrying his half-pound load, but he was reluctant to leave the orchard and he would not come back to the south. At half-past one the tiercel returned, flying quickly down towards me in a series of abortive, rushing ‘J’s’, and I did not see him go. Fieldfares and redwings, a few tired birds, went down into the steep-sided valley, I descended into coldness I had never seen them do that before. Mobbed by starlings, and rising among them, he passed above me, and floated up into the sky, plunged down across the fields, veering and swaying about like a tipsy snipe. It was clutched in the breast – had been left. Rooks cawed as the light increased, and gulls began to fly faster, with longer and more determined wing-strokes. But their soaring was like an aircraft taking off. The peregrine stooped at this bird repeatedly, diving down at it in the night, or in the morning sun. A cock bullfinch, alighting on a fence-post on the inland side of the stream that flows down to the copse by the ford. Later, a peregrine flew low across the rising tide like a huge snipe. She floated on the land. Where the frost had melted. Over the dead oak she glided very slowly, then spread out her wings and the humped width of her back. Just as we, in the war, learnt to dread the sudden silence of the sky, but hidden at once in the black line of the wood at three o’clock to find the peregrine there. 