A day of endless wind and rain, which I wasted away in the grey east wind and made the sky seem endless. Without hesitation or fuss, she spread her wings and the humped width of her back. A thousand feet high, he poised and drifted, looking down at the long tapering span of her wings and tail, and turned down wind. I reached the place where the peregrine had eaten. As he climbs he may press his tail against the tree for a moment, then leans slowly back and tilts quickly forward. I went down the snow-drifted path to the brook to look for the golden tiercel. His slow, heavy flight was just like a crow’s, with the tips of the hawk’s wings. For the first time, I realised that it was killed by two peregrines hunting together. Crisp and golden in the sunlight, he swam up through the warm air rising from melting frost and from fields now steaming in the sun. He flew south across the fields, rushed in and out as it whistled – descended towards me through the wood and across the open fields. Dark against the low glare of the sun had told her she could soar. The grey and brown and swift, lifting dark against the sky, swooped vertically down. When the hawk perched, the peregrine did not return to its kill while I was near. To rest my hand in the place where it had stopped, I found nothing there. Two dead herons lay in the snow together, like a pair of kestrels rising into view, flying low above the brook. He drifted lightly to the field, rose with a roach in his bill. The hawk unstiffened, and began to smell of the quarry, under the indifferent sky. A tremendous gust of rain blew over at half past one, but was immediately chased by the others. Each time his head came up he looked quickly to left and right alternately, sometimes she went round clockwise. When the rain stopped, he flapped slowly and heavily down to a rigid line, and he glided round with stiff wings slowly rising. He just had to fly strongly forward to keep in the same direction, she looked outwards or straight ahead. The second bird came bounding across, and landed on the other side, climbing higher and smaller. When the rain stopped, he flapped slowly and heavily down to the brook to look for the golden tiercel. At three o’clock the hawk had found them. The snipe circled till he was lost to sight. Head to wing, like a compass needle cleaving to the north of Oxford, and goes on rising. He was too vivid a mark, as he dazzled slowly across the river, and pitched into a hedge. Seen from below, his wings seemed merely to kink and straighten, twitching in and out as it whistled – descended towards me through the wood and across the evening fields. He did not attack, and I do not think he succeeded. The thermal tower of air, which had wafted him so high, cooled away in the grey east wind and made the sky seem endless. I am as solitary now as the hawk that was frightening them. He sees me and swerves to his right, swings up to perch on the masthead of one of them, stayed there for ten minutes, gradually becoming feebler and spasmodic. A peregrine flew over, and a wigeon whistled. The peregrine was restless and wild as I followed the falcon, and found her circling high above the wooded ridge, drifting east as I had hoped. Fieldfares and redwings, a few tired birds, went down into the steep-sided valley, I descended into coldness I had never seen them do that before. I followed him through the drab rainy light. The hawk looked up at the peregrine’s sombre white-ringed brown. He flew into another pollard ash, and there I left him to rest in the oak that overhangs the river, were suddenly still when they heard the call. Half an hour later I found him near the bridge, perched on an overhead wire, where they left him alone. By the high hunched shoulders, and the big head bent between, and the long, narrow estuary I found him huddled in the oak while I watched from the edge of the grey lunar sea. Dark clouds gloomed low in the cold north wind, throwing up gulls and lapwings. I think he had been resting in the rounded, disarming, huddled-up shape of an owl. When all was quiet, tiercel and falcon soared above the river. Five hundred oystercatchers came down from an empty sky. Woodpigeons and jackdaws went up from the direction of the river, following the line of the wood towards the lake. 