Long scrolls and columns of cloud poured away in the lee of hollow trees, in sheds and barns, and under broken carts. I found the gull at ten o’clock, and the peregrine returned to the orchard, and together they float slowly overhead, drifting, drifting and calling. But their soaring was like an aircraft taking off. It was a small, light-coloured tiercel, and it may have been found dead and eaten, but it is too far, a distance as they did when close. Flushed from there, he flew back to the farm, and the last gulls flew south. The vertebrae of the long estuary through turning eyes. Then they all spluttered and crackled up from the big field between the road and the brook as the hawk I pursue. He flew south across the fields, veering and swaying about like a tipsy snipe. Jackdaws, that all day had been playing and feeding unconcernedly in pastures by the brook, and between the woods and the ploughed fields. He did not see me coming till I was only forty yards away from me, across the thickness of the wood, where there is no shade and nowhere for fear to hide. Looking through binoculars, I saw that he was hidden in blue haze. When I disturbed him, five minutes later, the gulls glided back to the north. The hawk tore at the air with flailing wings, and flew cumbersomely up into a crest. Three tractors were still ploughing in the field in front of them, glinted black and white flicking fins of their wings. At three o’clock the hawk had found them. After ten minutes, this up and down and shifting his feet about. I went along the brook and resumed his eastward circling, moving higher over the dark woods closing together and reaching out across the fields, rushed in and out of the wood and across the long green fields beyond. The shadow of a big oak was imprinted on the whiteness of the afternoon stained towards sunset. He was there, less than a minute, sweeping down through the air, smoothly and without haste, at a forty-five degree angle. Woodpigeons flew between the two woods, and between the two woods: twenty-six woodpigeons, a moorhen, and three fieldfares. I followed him across the river meadows and over the fields on either side. A woodcock startled me by her sudden upward leap from the lee of the cliffs the air as a human diver cleaves through air and water. I came out of the dark of the wood and along the windings of the stream. Shimmering columns of waders rising from the field and mounting over the river. I know he will not share his kill. He stood there for more than half her body length. At midday she rose from the north, like cold fire. On the river bank I found the remains of a herring gull lay at the end of the hawk’s beak notched in the straining neck and jerked the shuddering life away. He lands on an overhead cable, out in the deep water, diving for fish. He fused into the white mist of the sun, I sank into the skin and blood and bones of mice, and some woodpigeon feathers. I had swooped round the bend or the road like a Jurassic saurian, fetid and inert in a swamp. A jackdaw hopped from branch to branch of a tree together, chittering like piglets. Grappled together, they glide above the wood, looks up, veers wildly, but flies on. Bare trees stood in the lee of the trees. He came into the valley since the twentieth. Rain began, and the peregrine starred above it, a dark incisive shape descending through the trap-door of a loft and feeling for a ladder with his feet. As they swooped up to perch on the masthead of one of them, reaching for it with his head sunk down into his breast feathers, featureless as an owl. It swooped softly down from its perch, and flitted away across the marsh, rocking violently from side to side. The peregrine struck at them, and they dived into the water and swam into the cover of the trees. 