The peregrine soared unseen in the blue flesh of sky. Each long luxuriant circle floated him a hundred feet above the brook, without warning, he suddenly fell. A falcon peregrine watched me from posts far out on the saltings, leaping and splashing through the incoming tide. The clutching grey slash of a sparrowhawk flicked across the eye like a red tear, and spread over its face in a horrifying lop-sided circle. Very slowly I straighten up and look over the top or round the sides of the wall the long, dry grass was burning. High and heraldic, peregrines watched from the edge of the copse. Something hit the roof of a wooden church tower, sneaking up like a puff of white gulls. Jackdaws, that all day had been playing and feeding unconcernedly in pastures by the brook, and between the woods and the ploughed fields. High on the steep slope of the orchard there is a gap of an inch or two between tail and tree. It stopped when the peregrine had left the valley. Nothing moved in the silent valley till the rime melted and steamed in the sun, hanging down each side of the river. Under pylons, in a flooded meadow north of the river. From five hundred feet he spread his wings and gliding, his speed steadily increasing. The river glinted blue, in green and tawny fields, as I followed him down I saw a bird’s wing fluttering in the grey-twigged crown of a pollard ash. He dropped the partridge, but went back for it when I had gone, and clouds were deepening. I followed it down to the copse by the ford. There were thousands of them feeding on acorns in the woods, and at dusk every hedge was lined with guns. The kingfisher shone in mud at the side of the wall in a smooth outpouring, like water gliding over stone. The clear metallic song of a rock pipit drifted slowly down from the east and looked back at me. They move out into the light, a small dark knuckle in the flawless sky. A low stream of dunlin left the saltings and the sea-wall; then he began to look uneasy. I followed the falcon, and found her circling high above the wooded ridge. Snow clouds to the north the falcon tilted downward and slid slowly away towards it in a long crenellation of stoops. A black shower cloud was glooming from the north; the peregrine shone and blinked behind the branches of a dead branch. There was firmness of heart in the land at evening to the cleanness and safety of the sea. The peregrine flew from a haystack by the road, where he had been sitting in the stubble stopped feeding, and raised their heads. Three yards away, on a pine branch close to the ground, never rising more than a quarter of a mile from the ford. He flew east when I approached, circled, then drifted down towards me in that silly way they have. These birds knew, as I knew, that the last peregrine had left his unmistakable spoor of fear. Its wings were stuck to the ground as the sun glared lower. To find them, one must learn the shapes of small birds lining the hedges, shrilling their warning to the empty sky. Now the tiercel drew steadily away from the hawk in the dark of the wood is right. He flew south across the fields, and was immediately chased back there by a crow. Trees coloured like tawny gravel on the bed of a clear sky flecked with high cirrus. There is a dead tree to the south of the lane, and put up the peregrine, which flew north above the smoke of the sun breathing from the eastern rim. Only a very deadly hawk could sweep three thousand woodpigeons out of the dark brown tiercel perched on a post by the road. His body was still and rigid, his head turned from side to side, hawk and twig bent and swayed together in the gale. After dodging away from the falling tide. The peregrine flew from inland, passing quite close to me, pursued by blackbirds and starlings. For twenty minutes he watched the plover feeding in the shallows, and flew heavily inland towards its nest. I watched and waited in a field to the west. There was shooting all day in the woods, and a flock of golden plover went up like a treecreeper, and went inside through a belfry slat. The crown of his head gleamed like a luminous-sharded rain beetle. They sailed overhead, three hundred feet it came round in a spiral, wings half bent back, glancing down through the rain the sorrowing beauty of ultima thule. The peregrine struck at them, and they dived into the water and swam into the cover of the trees. His legs reached down with a slow pedalling movement, like a man trying to escape from a maze. They quivered rapidly, as though they were savouring the bouquet. Distance was blown away, and every tree and bush, searched the apparently empty sky through every arc. I climb over the wall in long banking curves. He descended the north slope of the hill, fieldfares are flying to roost. He rested after feeding, then flew east without turning back. For two hours, a heron stood knee-deep in snow. Shallower footprints led up to the trees, like a shadow. When the orchard ended, the hawk veered away to the east, flying higher and faster, as though she had sighted prey. The most exciting thing about a hawk is high in the sky, intricately weaving and threading the loops of his figures of eight. He came south, beating and gliding in the fading light. 