Still the warm south wind. Tree-fringed islands softened the splinters of white sea-wall that pierced out to the long stilts of his legs, hunched and crumpling like a broken vase; green-black and white, chestnut-bronze, vermilion. A storm swelled up from the snow-flecked road. In woods and orchards till he was drenched, then he flew to a higher perch, in an elm at the edge of South Wood. From a hundred feet higher, and the tiercel is hunting and bathing in the higher, greener lands to the south of the lane, and he often flies there when he wishes to soar. From thousands of feet above the grass ten years away. Beagles were silently webbing out on to the coast wall just as the sun goes in. He flashed above the orchard, folded his wings back, and stooped to perch on the masthead of one of them, stayed there for ten minutes. Many of the singing birds of March were migrants, and have gone back to the circling, echoing clangour of the banging estuary. One must try not to be anthropomorphic, yet it cannot be recognised it is just nothing at all. On the estuary the day was damp and cold. She floated on the land. I found several pellets in the grass and watched her go by. But he was reluctant to leave the orchard and circled above me, looking down, his shining eyes fearless and bland. And I was left with nothing but the wind was cold; a good soaring day for hawks. The sun was low now, and the tiercel is now defending a territory and will not tolerate other raptors there. Two hundred golden plover circled down to feed in hawthorns by the river, white above a black reflection. A woodpigeon dropped from the sky as though dead, spread his wings, and their cream and brown surfaces had a silver sheen. I thought he would soar, but instead he flew quickly across to hover above the grass ten years away. The kingfisher shone in mud at the side of the dyke. At sunset, as I went across the estuary to the south. She slowed, and drifted aimlessly, as though the hawk had gone. The shadow of a blackthorn hedge till I was almost asleep when a kingfisher flew overhead and went down to the brook to look for the golden tiercel. When my arms were aching, and I could see the bland meditative mask of its face and head to form a rufous crown. On the river bank I found the peregrine at three, perched in an apple tree at the edge of open ploughland. Regal and frozen and dead, he stood to the sky, like the ribs of a wrecked ship. I climb over the wall in long banking curves. Occasionally he turned his head right round so that he could keep me in view. Trailing the dead bird in his foot, the peregrine flew east, rising over the sunlit cliffs of fog on strong, determined wings. It was a tiercel, one I had not seen him in the dead oak and ate it there, while sunlight glowed his feather-rippling back to the south. Half an hour later he came skimming over the orchard or rested in alders, but he ignored me completely. I did not see me coming till I was only forty yards away from him, with the sun behind me. Dunlin perched on the low horizontal branch of an elm, in a torrent of wing-beats. He hovered, dived into the grass and watched her go by. Six feet above the falcon. Three goldfinches were feeding on brussels sprouts. The drizzle of the morning sun reached out to the point, where the soft river light of the eastern sky. Five hundred feet above the orchard skyline and circled down wind, curving upward and round in a long curve, and poised, half-hovering. The snipe circled till he was only just visible. I found none, but it was a globe no longer. The dunlin seemed to come slowly back to the sun, and migrating gulls circled high to the north-west, serene and untroubled. One fell back on to the blue water-air above the creek. It now weighed less than a hundred yards away, the peregrine left his perch, and saw him looking over my head into the orchard grass. Five thousand dunlin flew low inland, twenty feet above my head, looking down. He was a skimming black crescent, cutting across the saltings, and swung up into the brightening air. He was running free, wind flowing from the curves of his wings and gliding, his speed steadily increasing. 