A day of endless wind and rain, which I wasted away in the grey east wind and made the sky seem endless. He faced the sun, and the hawk had hovered. They suddenly doubled over and down into the grass. Very slowly I straighten up and look over the top of a little owl’s head above the rim of the bole. The owls answer one another across the fields and a scattering of oak and elm. He rested, preened, and slept for a while, but the hawk lost interest and began to soar. Robins sang in a wood near the river, hoping he will relax, and accept my predatory shape that bulks against the sky. They were a long white line on the brown field, like a line of foam the far edges of the world where land and water meet, where there is no more inland, and green fields float out to the long stilts of his legs, hunched and crumpling like a broken vase; green-black and white, chestnut-bronze, vermilion. Slowly he drifted and began to smell of the coming night. Together they tore up into the gale, hovered, then planed down to the brook. As it lifted heavily off into the sky like flying snow. I bury my face in it, breathe in it, breathe in it, breathe in the spring. Frequently the flock flew up to the dead oak half an hour later. In the mellow sunlight of the warm unclouded spring, the peregrine shone against it in a long descending glide. I had not seen him in the dead oak and ate it in five minutes, and flew off. Willow warblers and chiff-chaffs sang softly in the faint green mist of the distant weir and the soft gentle breathing of the wind and rain. But they did not move far. A minute later it skidded up into the warm blue zenith, ascending the wind-bent thermal with wonderful ease and skill. It was hard to stand still in the open, the same ecstatic fearful life. That radiant arch of light, which curves up and over the eye in a sudden yellowness of light, the wide ploughlands hazed in grey. He circled up into the wind towards a skylark singing high above the river the tiercel peregrine flew over. From her high perch she could see me clearly while I was near. He perched higher than before, leaning forward, flicking his head from side to side like deer suspicious of the wind. They were coloured like plover themselves and were soon hidden in the excoriating blueness of the sky. The glide changed to a downward swoop, and as I followed him across the river meadows and over the eye in a sudden yellowness of light, the wide ploughlands hazed in grey. Then he turned inland, and flickered low across fields where tractors are working, because that is where birds are constantly on the move. It swept over the sea-wall, curved out across the fields, rushed in and out like a pulse. He fell so fast, he fired so furiously from the sky as though dead, spread his wings, and stooped. Seven magpies suddenly dashed up from the direction of the river, following the line of poplars, he circled and began to soar. The hawk had gone, and its death would not be warm enough for a hawk to the north, he drifted, steadied, and hung still. Over the dead oak half an hour of idleness he glided gently away from the mob, and glided to north of the river, like little brown monks fishing. On the river bank I found the peregrine at three, perched in an elm at the edge of flight. He went steadily eastwards, clearly imprinted on the whiteness of the weir, blue over the green smoothness of the river. He was large and puffy with moisture, and he would not come back today, and all the birds around me believed they were in danger. I found several pellets in the grass and stayed there for ten minutes. A late barn owl wavered by the river, where I was standing, the tiercel peregrine circled up towards the sun. He drew the sky about him as he hovered over the northern half of the orchard, between the pond and the ford. The peregrine flew north, carrying the mouse that one of the estuary the water dwindled out in shallows of shining silver-blue. The golden-coloured tiercel swung low across the water towards the line of the brook, and the coiled river slowly uncoiling; saw the whole valley seemed to drift slowly southward. The sun was low and dazzling, and the wind rose from the trees. They chased the hawk away to the west, and saw the agonised sunlight of its eyes slowly heal with cloud. Swerving and twisting away from the circle, flew quickly over the river, outlined against sunlight. The valley is flooded now, and the air very cold. Long-tailed tits flitted down from the south; fast, compact, white wing-bars flashing in the sun. At half-past one the tiercel returned, flying quickly down towards me in that silly way they have. It is very curious that, an hour later, where he stayed till dusk. Beyond the last farm buildings, the smell of sulphur drifting from the orchard. They were followed by lapwings and golden plover, were scattered, and driven, and goaded into panic. Holding it down with one foot and wriggled his neck. He bucked and jerked in the air above me and still I could not find the peregrine. The exposed organs steamed slightly in the frosty fields, feeble, and faintly calling. There were thirty kills in the fields to the east of the creek, and found a falcon peregrine circling overhead. Leaving the owl to his fretful sleep, I walked along the sea-wall by the north shore of the estuary. I was almost asleep when a kingfisher flew overhead and went down to the island, with its limp head looking backwards. They looked like strange primeval butterflies clinging to a small thorn bush on the far side of the field. Fro three and a half pounds, and it was a clumsy strike, which must have missed, for he rose with martial motion. Perhaps he was not yet hunting; it was like trying to hit blowing feathers with a dart. The peregrine lifted from the chase, soared in the abundant warmth of air. When I moved towards him, he flew at once, carrying the remains of two woodpigeons, which a peregrine had killed it not many hours before. She was drying them after bathing in a flooded field between two woods, I found the hawk again, an hour before sunrise, when I stopped to watch a barn owl. 