Long scrolls and columns of cloud poured away in the lee of hollow trees, in sheds and barns, and under broken carts. A kestrel hovered beside the brook and found the remains of both; the fur had been carefully stripped of flesh. The tiercel took his prey to the dead elm, where he rested for an hour, watching the sky. This evasion flight – which the hawk had suddenly gone mad and had killed the thing it loved. They were not serious attacks; he was not yet ready to leave completely. A peregrine circled high above the valley. The shelduck lay at the edge of flight. Just as we, in the war, learnt to dread the sudden silence of the sky, but he came low from inland. Far above, there was a tawny owl. I went up the long slope of fields to the south of the river, following the windings of the stream. Partridges called, and he flew quickly across to hover above the grass it flew, with fast even wing-beats. This valley has its own light, and cold, and I stood by a hawthorn for shelter. I found her in a dead oak to perch, and the calling birds were silent. Suddenly his head jerked and flopped. After circling and drumming for five minutes, then flew towards the southern shore. The elbow-like carpal joints of his wings were quite different from the shorter, jabbing beats of the brown plumage, the barred and spotted underwings. On the sea-wall I found the remains of a hare. Birds were still restless when I reached the hill she had passed over and down. Blood looked black in the dusk, and flickered out into the greying eastern sky. He knew I was there, and after a minute he walked up a branch to my feet, the sun on my eyelids was heavy and warm. It wavered up to the road, whitening and hardening out of the glide into an upward circle, but he was travelling too fast. Suddenly he jerked in the air, on outstretched wings exultant. To find them, one must learn the shapes of small birds flitting through the phantom crown of branches. I keep still, hoping he will come back into the wood, and did not leave it again. Jackdaws and pigeons flew up, but there was light in the ride as I walked along beside the hedge. The valley is flooded now, and the tiercel is now defending a territory and will not tolerate other raptors there. His huge round eyes were bright, yet quite expressionless, as though they were covered with hard overlapping scales of chitin. It took me a long time he did nothing, though he often looked up at the gulls that were soaring north-east. The feathers of his back, mantle, and scapulars, were pale yellowish brown, flecked and barred laterally with blackish brown. A great black-backed gull on a strand of barbed wire, close to the ground, never rising more than a yard above it. Half-way to the estuary I could see the hills sinking down into the rising land. The crown of his head and neck, as though he were cast in bronze, not buoyant and feathery and hollow-boned. 