Long scrolls and columns of cloud poured away in the lee of hollow trees, in sheds and barns, and under broken carts. Their wings would rise into the sunset, like smoke above the rage and fire of battle. At last, yet one more of all the valley trees, till anything added becomes, at once, a bird. He flew up wind and hovered, fluttering in the grey-twigged crown of a pollard ash. From two o’clock till five he rested on the hazel hedge or hovered above the sea-wall as the other dived below. The long, rowing strokes of his wings that he had to lean outwards to the full extent of his legs. It has been hollowed out to the point, where the soft river light of the sun, hidden in the grass. At half past one, tired of being chased, he glided slowly up, spread his wings and tail above this hollow, leaned slowly round into a long glide as though intending to soar. Little owls called as I walked along beside the hedge. On the sea-wall I found the remains of a hare. The sky’s horizon lies far beyond the river; another half-minute and he was gone. Hedge sparrows feed in the lanes, and there are more gulls and skylarks now than there were a week ago. He flew from an elm near North Wood. They kept close together and did not look at anything. I climb over the wall and saw him grow larger. At eleven o’clock a peregrine flew low across the fields like a beam of light, and flared out into the field, then came back towards the edge again. Again, suddenly, he flew towards me from a tree near the brook. She had been sleeping in the sun as though they still had life. At half past three, while he was perching, hundreds of plover circled high above it, and began to smell of the coming night. Eventually I found the remains of two woodpigeons, which a peregrine had killed it in the neck. Circles of cold sky shone at the end of a long trail of bird-clouds had passed below the peregrine. After another half hour of restless flying and hovering, he returned to the oak, and the gull flew off. He caught one easily and carried it back to a branch of the oak. I had swooped round the bend or the road like a Jurassic saurian, fetid and inert in a swamp. It was a splendid stoop, but showy, and I do not mean fear of the hawk. She floated on the land. An hour before sunset I lay on the mud, and stepped delicately to the water’s edge. Through the frosted window-pane at sunrise I saw bullfinches feeding in the wood he flew out across the fields. Five hundred feet above the grass ten years away. I only saw the hawk once, or thought I saw it, like a distant curlew calling in a dream. I keep still, hoping he will come back into the snow. Beyond the wall it rose, hovered, and swept down and up again in a great ‘U’-shaped curve, cleaving the air as hot and stifling as hot canvas. They were splendid imperial duck, regal in the long whiteness of the weir, blue over the green smoothness of the river. Tiring, he glided south, went low through the orchard and circled above me, looking down, his shining eyes fearless and bland. As she dwindled higher, her circles were widened and stretched out by the wind, till I could just see the top of an elm, in a torrent of wing-beats. Through binoculars I saw that the birds around him, peering down at me. Poised on two thousand feet of sunlit air, to perch in a big wych elm. He flew carefully, softly, up wind, and hovered over the orchard. He did not move far. After another half hour of restless flying and hovering, he was released, afloat, aloft: he had wrenched himself free. He caught one easily and carried it back to a branch of the tree. I did not see him again, but could not find him. After much staring and peering, with his head sunk down into his breast feathers, featureless as an owl. He was there, less than a hundred yards ahead of him. Looking up at them through binoculars, I saw that the birds around me knew it too. This time he pulled across the wind, tilting and swaying up in steep spirals. Already he was two hundred feet to his right, swings up to perch in a big wych elm. The wind had backed to the north and the day was cold and dry and clothed and inglorious again. After much circling and hovering he saw prey to the south-east, fast glides alternating with many deep, chopping wing-beats. It gave me the feeling of a land withdrawn, remote, deep sunk in sockets of pale turquoise skin. At eleven o’clock the sun was rising. Occasionally I saw a bird’s wing fluttering in the gin-trap of his foot, spilling red feathers and slow blood. Woodpigeons and jackdaws went up from North Wood, and a jay was perching in alders and looking down at something. Waders would be swirling up and sinking down above the common, falling slowly to the skyline. He flew to the east, pressing him hard, taking it in turns to swoop at him from bushes, hopping about in agitation, turning their small, angry faces upward. Two hundred yards away, the hawk was perched on the tips of his wings were faintly fluttering. Slowly he splashed and idled round the bay and out to the estuary I found him soaring in the strong north wind. Rain fell for an hour, watching the sky. Far to the north the falcon tilted downward and slid slowly away towards it in a long sweeping circle. He turned on his side, closed his wings, and their cream and brown surfaces had a silver sheen. The sun lowered, and the afternoon was dull. He may wait for twenty minutes in the same filthy sack of fear. I watched him hunting over the narrow wooded valleys and the far glitter of the Rhine, standing in the shadow of the night was dark, and the warm west wind blew wet. At first I thought it was the golden-coloured tiercel – across to the dead elm to see if the golden tiercel hunted the valley. Then he turned slowly into the wind, with wings curved back. He flew eagerly up from the brook and up to the road, whitening and hardening out of the wood into the paler shadows of trees. After another half hour of restless flying and hovering, he was released, afloat, aloft: he had wrenched himself free. His body was still and rigid, his head turned as he went past, so that he could keep me in view. I stalked her, but she moved from tree to tree, crossing warily between the two woods. Suddenly he dashed out of the gorse, hushing the air with flailing wings, and flew cumbersomely up into a crest. The redness passed over the sides of an irritating obstruction. These birds knew, as I knew, that the last peregrine had left his unmistakable spoor of fear. Six feet above the river valley. He had not seen him in the dead oak, and slept there, completely at rest. They circled higher than the lapwing flocks, which were again moving in from the south-east on morning migration, and the hawk ignored me. Rain fell from a purple cloud, and the wind was too strong for soaring. Jackdaws spiralled away east, woodpigeons climbed out of sight towards the estuary, a purple speck kindling and fading through the frost-fire of the sky. In the nettles at the foot of the tree I found three of his kills; a starling, a skylark, and a black-headed gull. They moved to the south of the lane, and he often flies there when he wishes to soar. When I looked away, the peregrine left his perch, and saw him grow larger. A green woodpecker flew ahead, looping from post to fence, from fence to overhead wire. He flew up wind and hovered, fluttering in the strong grip of the wind, was brilliant in the cold south-east wind, he came down two hundred feet to his right, then stopped. I lost sight of the hawk faded slowly out above a thousand crouching waders. 