“Where are you?”

“Doing the Joan Didion freeway thang. You know, slouching around L.A. Sorry, babe, but it’s hard to feel exhilarated going five miles an hour.”

“Be serious.”

“All right.” Emi sucked her nostrils together and intoned, “Do you read me Mothergoose? Come in Mothergoose. I’m on the Hollywood South, following the NewsNow van to a site.”

“Where on the Hollywood?”

“Just passing Silverlake.”

“Shit!”

“What?”

“My car! Didn’t you see it? Stalled on the right shoulder!”

“Gabe, we’re looking for a major SigAlert, not your stalled car. Besides, they’re saying it’s a red convertible Porsche Carrera Four or what’s left of it, not a decrepit faded orange BMW with no bumpers and no muffler. I told you to buy a new car.”

“The transmission blew up. Shit. It took forever to get this far anyway. It’s like the freeway is longer or something.”

“Well, it is pretty stacked up.” Emi looked out all her mirrors. “Red convertible Porsche. Imagine, no L.A. native would buy such a thing. What are the chances? Breathe freeway air and get cancer. Lose your hair. Get jacked easy. Or just get shot straight on. Must be an ex-pat from the East. Came to L.A. to die.”

Gabriel groaned. “Listen, get off at the next exit and pick me up.”

“At this point, it would easier for the NewsNow copter to pick you up.”

“Emi, this is important. I’ve got to meet a plane in the next half-hour. I’ve got a lead to follow. In fact, it’s stuff you like. Might involve some genuine espionage.”

“Ouuu. Where are you?”

“At a gas station phone booth. Two blocks north on Silver Lake off the Hollywood.”

“If you’d get a decent car, you could keep a car phone. Cell-u-lar. Get it? We could do cell-u-lar to cell-u-lar.” She said it like it was sex.

“Emi, I don’t have time for this. Beam me out of here, okay?”

“Ay ay, Cap—” The line went silent. Emi followed the NewsNow van under the overpass and then to a standstill. The major SigAlert couldn’t be too far away now, or then again, it might be really far away, and this was the residual result of stopped-up traffic. In any case, it was impossible to talk to Gabriel from a tunnel of concrete. But it also looked like it would be impossible to save him from his predicament. It was wall-to-wall cars. Emi pulled on the hand brake and got out of her car. She walked up to the NewsNow van and tapped on the window. “Guys, I gotta go save a friend. Did you see that old stalled orange BMW back there?”

The guys shook their heads.

“Well, that was him.”

“You gonna walk?”

“I know what you mean.” Emi surveyed the line-up of cars.

“Air shots from the NewsNow copter look good, but we can’t even get up on the shoulder to drive through. It’s the next overpass over. See?” the NewsNow driver pointed. “Porsche ran into a semi. Semi jackknifed. Thing’s sprawled out across five lanes. Porsche looks like a Classic Coke can. Squashed for recycling.

“Anybody hurt?”

“I guess we’ll find out.”

Emi thought about this. Every now and then, she and usually some other sensation seeker at the station would get the word and go chasing after the NewsNow van, just to be there on the scene. It was one of those days when she just felt like a little adrenaline high for real-life horror. Maybe because it was disaster movie week. So far she had been to a fire, to the scene of a robbery, and had chased the NewsNow van chasing cops involved in a two-hour car chase that started in Burbank and ended up in Whittier. But the thought of seeing mangled bodies in a car wreck suddenly churned about in her stomach. She could always see it on TV. “Hey, if I can maneuver my car out of here, I’ll see you back at the station.”

Emi spotted Gabriel on the corner near the gas pumps. He was looking in the other direction, his dark features a striking profile, black hair slicked back into a ponytail, Ray-Bans focused across the street at nothing in particular. He was wearing a black shirt, black suspenders, and the purple tie she had given him, looking rumpled as usual and probably sweating like a horse in this heat. “Hey you,” she yelled through her tinted power window as it slid down, “Prince of the Aztecs! Are we too late?”

Gabriel nodded a cool recognition at the sight of Emi’s sleek black twin-turbo Supra. As Emi liked to say, everything about her vehicular possession purred, Detail me. Detail me. She gunned the motor to let anyone watching know she was picking him up.

“Plane could be late. Then there’s customs. It’s worth a try.”

“Bradley International?”

“Yeah.”

“What’s with this mobster look? Aren’t you hot?”

“Don’t remind me. It was—”

“Overcast in the morning,” she finished the sentence. The light turned. “Hold on,” she warned. “We gotta cut through the red tape.” No one maneuvered a car like Emi. She wasn’t afraid to merge. She slipped in a CD. Piazzolla for Gabriel. Merging music, she called it. As she had explained to Gabriel long ago, “I was brought up next to the Ascot in Gardena. My brother and my cousin used to race. I learned to drive from them. No wimpy driving here, baby.” Emi gunned the Supra around the corner, jammed into first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, dancing up and down each gear to the vehicle’s purring acceleration. “I love to shift gears,” she gripped the stick and confessed over the wailing tango.

Gabriel feigned nonchalance. He usually let her drive. Like the house in Mazatlán, his old BMW 2002 was another aspiration of his—to take a classic with character and make it run like a panther. He never had time. Usually it ran.

“Something’s wrong today,” Gabriel observed. “Yesterday too. Haven’t you noticed it?”

“If you mean that the garage door opener broke, there’s no paper in the fax machine, and my car alarm went off for no good reason, you’re right.”

“I mean the length of the day. The weather. The light for godssake. Time. It’s got something to do with time. Place. Damn!” Gabriel squinted. “Every which way you turn, the sun is in your windshield.

“I’ve got an earthquake kit in the back with bottled water and aspirin. Maybe we should break it out. You don’t sound so good.”

“Buzz mentioned the same thing yesterday. He was talking about the rain, how it flooded, how the sun was out right after like it never happened. Something about it being like Alaska. The sun never going away.”

Emi shifted gears and changed the subject. “I talked to your mom today.”

“So what’s new?”

“She wanted to know why we missed your grandma’s birthday party. From the sound of it, all two hundred and thirty-three members of your family were there except you. Even your cousin Joe got out of jail for it.”

“Do you know how old my grandmother is? One hundred and eight. Ever since she turned a hundred, we gotta have a party like it’s the last one. So I’ve been to seven out of eight.”

“She’s the one who knew Pancho Villa?”

“Yeah. She’s full of stories. She started the East L.A. Ladies Garment Workers Union. Hey, I’ve got it all down on tape and notes. And that’s what counts. Nobody understands.” Gabriel fumed.

Emi gunned the Supra down surface streets and two freeways, then swerved the Supra to the curb. “Twenty-eight minutes flat with two to go. Get out and be a reporter.” She pointed at Bradley International. “I’ll circle once. That enough time?”

“You may have to stall.”

“No problema.”

Gabriel burst from the car. Emi had put the punch back into his always grim resolve. No matter what was wrong with today, Emi could ignore it or use it to her purposes. She was right. There was work to do. There was a story to follow. “You saved my ass,” he admitted, and ran from the car but not far enough before she called him back, Piazzolla chasing notes in minor.

“I got it!” she yelled from her driver’s seat. “Angel Beach!” She waved the videotape in its Blockbuster container. “They say it’s a goddamn classic!”

Piazzolla’s bandoneón moaned. The black Supra moaned. Emi moaned. “For godssake,” she bit her lip, “You make me feel so horny.”

Gabriel turned on his heels, impassioned anguish embodied in his dark figure, disappearing into Bradley International.