Buzzworm studied the map. Balboa’d torn it out of a book for him to study. Quartz City or some such title. He followed the thick lines on the map showing the territorial standing of Crips versus Bloods. Old map. 1972. He shook his head. Even if it were true. Even if it were true, whose territory was it anyway? Might as well show which police departments covered which beats; which local, state and federal politicians claimed which constituents; which kind of colored people (brown, black, yellow) lived where; which churches/temples served which people; which schools got which kids; which taxpayers were registered to vote; which houses were owned or rented; which businesses were self-employed; which corner liquor stores served which people; which houses were crack; which houses banging; which houses on welfare; which houses making more than twenty thou a year; which houses had young couples with children; which elderly; which people been in the neighborhood more than thirty years. And where in Compton did George Bush used to live anyway? If someone could put down all the layers of the real map, maybe he could get the real picture.

So far he was thinking how he owned his house. Owned it outright. Paid for it a long time ago. Like those plates say, Don’t laugh; it’s paid for. Took up where his grandmother left off, paying like clockwork every month. Old lady was proud of it. Never missed her payment day. Could go without food or clothing, but not her house. Eat out of the garden out back. Patch up the clothing, starch it, dye it another color. But pay for the house. Day it was paid for good and clear, Buzzworm paid a visit to her grave site. Took the paperwork to prove it. Taken thirty years, double that and then some, counting the time to save the down payment—her lifetime and some of his. The house itself couldn’t be worth nothing. Only so much repair he could afford to do. Been meaning to paint it now some five, six years. Kept the lawn mowed and the flower bed weeded. Was it the land? The garden? Some real estate person come round and offer hundred thou, maybe be a blessing. Was this his territory? According to the map, it was in Crips or Bloods territory.

Buzzworm remembered conversations he had with people saying they used to live here or there. Now here or there is a shopping mall, locate the old house somewhere between Mrs. Field’s and the Footlocker. Or here or there is now the Dorothy Chandler Pavilion, or Union Station, or the Bank of America, Arco Towers, New Otani, or the freeway. People saying if they coulda owned the property, if the property had been worth anything at the time, if they’d a known then every square foot of that land was worth millions. If they’d a known the view’d be so expensive. If they’d a known. And then Buzzworm thinking about before that. About the Mexican rancheros and before that, about the Chumash and the Yangna. If they’d a known.

Somebody else must have the big map. Or maybe just the next map. The one with the new layers you can’t even imagine. Where was his house on this map? Between Mrs. Field’s and the Footlocker? Somebody’s parking lot? Somebody’s tennis court? Or just the driveway to some gated community? Roll over grandma. He could never go to heaven to tell her such things. He’d have to go to hell.

He remembered years ago. Neighborhood meeting at the old recreation center. City bureaucrats come over to explain how they were gonna widen the freeway. Move some houses over, appropriate streets, buy out the people in the way. Some woman just like grandma stood up and wanted to know what the master plan was. How’d she know it wasn’t gonna be more than just widen the freeway? How’d she know wasn’t gonna be more than one ramp? Wasn’t gonna be some other surprises? An airport maybe? Condominium and hotels and convention halls? Who was gonna guarantee she was gonna have a place to live under the master plan? Bureaucrats unveiled their poster boards and scale models. Everything in pastels, modern-like. Made the hood look cleaned up. Quaint. Made the palm trees look decorative. This was the plan. Just a little freeway widening. Wasn’t gonna affect her house. Her house was her house. Wasn’t gonna affect her.

Bureaucrats acted like she was crazy paranoid. But they knew better. Anything can happen. Time and paper on their side. By the time the freeway could be widened, people forget what they got promised. Politicians who promised could be gone. Situations change, bureaucrats don’t. So they said it wasn’t gonna affect her. They’d be around to make sure. Make sure it took five years to clear out the houses. Make sure the houses left to be broken into and tagged. Let the houses be there for everyone to see. Use for illegal purposes. Pass drugs. House homeless. Make sure the ramp took another five years. Slow down the foot traffic and the flow. Break down the overpass crossing the freeway. Make it impossible for people to pass. Stop people from using the shops that used to be convenient. Stop people from coming to her dress shop. Used to be a respectable shop. Anybody who’s anybody, she did it custom. Haute couture. Entire wedding line-ups. Now homeless, dope dealers, prostitutes only ones passing her shop. No master plan. No ma’am. Wasn’t gonna affect her no way.

Was no wonder you could make a map. Call it all gang territory. Was no wonder homies tagging their territory. They wanted it all back. Claim it for the hood. Futile gestures without a master plan. Leave it crumbling and abandoned enough; nothing left but for bulldozers. Just plow it away. Take it all away for free.

Buzzworm had a plan. Called it gentrification. Not the sort brings in poor artists. Sort where people living there become their own gentry. Self-gentrification by a self-made set of standards and respectability. Do-it-yourself gentrification. Latinos had this word, gente. Something translated like us. Like folks. That sort of gente-fication. Restore the neighborhood. Clean up the streets. Take care of the people. Trim and water the palm trees. Some laughed at Buzzworm’s plan. Called his plan This Old Hood. They could laugh, but he was still trying to go to heaven.

He thought about his palm trees like jeweled fingers. They towered in the sky. Formed the true diamond lanes of the city. Somebody wrote something about his palm trees. He read it somewhere. About them being “long rows of phallic palm trees with sun-bleached pubic hair.” He was appreciative of the image. Sexy and tropical. A naked beach-like representation. Still, if he saw the beach once a year, it was an excessive count. Beach was an imagined thing skirtin’ the far Westside. He had heard the downtown high-rises referred to as phallic, too. Maybe his palm trees were standing up giving everybody the finger.

Today, he was doing the rounds with the street peddlers. They had their unspoken territories, too. He never saw them get in fights about it. They were very civilized about territory. Plenty of corners to go around. Plenty of freeway ramps. El Norte was big. L.A. was big. Grande. Sí. He had these conversations all the time. Get your business license, see. Fill this out. Put it in the paper. La Opinión will do. A few were old-timers, but most moved on. It was too risky if you didn’t have documents.

“Margarita, what’s on sale today?”

“Everything on sale. Otherwise gonna rot. Business’s not so good today.” Margarita smiled. She always smiled, even when business was not so good. Even though she got her boys out of El Salvador to escape the mano blanca death squad and now they were gangbanging in L.A. with the Mara Salvatrucha.

“I’ll take a bag of peanuts.”

“Señor Buzzworm, you always take peanuts.”

“I’m an elephant for peanuts.”

“Take bananas. They gonna rot.” She forced him a bunch. “What’s the music today?” She pointed at the Walkman in his ears.

“For you, Margarita, oldies.”

“Aretha Franklin.”

“How’d you know?”

“I know. I know you listen to mariachi también.”

“Los Camperos. The very best.”

“Sorry,” she shook her head. “Is not my culture. I, Salvador.”

“You,” he pointed at her. “Aretha Franklin. Don’t be such a purist.”

She laughed. “Look. I got nice oranges. This not the season see. So is imported from Florida.”

“Naranjas,” he nodded, but he thought he’d better set Margarita straight. “If it’s Florida, it’s not imported. Same country, see. If it’s México, it’s imported.”

“Por qué? Florida’s more far away than México.”

“You got a point, Margarita.”

“You bet. You buy bananas? I throw in one naranja free.”

“I’m a sucker, Margarita.”

“No, Señor Buzzworm. You’re a good customer.”

Buzzworm walked away with his bag of peanuts and bananas. Orange in his pocket. Crossing the street, he heard shots and the screech of tires hauling off. He ran around the corner, found a kid glued to a chain-link fence turning several shades of green. Kid recognized Buzzworm and blubbered something about curving bullets.

Buzzworm looked the kid over—not dead, a survivor—remembered he was the same kid mouthing off yesterday. Same little homey looking foolish, looking the other way, pawing the concrete with his Air Jordans sticking out his baggy pants. “Sounds like you had yourself a religious experience.” Buzzworm was almost sympathetic. “Course, you could be dead and having yourself a religious experience in a few days, depending on when they scheduled the funeral.”

“I ain’t lyin’.”

“Why should you lie? Few days ago, getting shot at was just things as usual. Surviving was no big deal.”

“So it ain’t. I just saw the bullets is all.”

“Like Superman, you saw the bullets.”

“Like slow motion.”

“Bullets coming at you at twelve hundred feet per second.”

“Movin’ from the barrel stickin’ outta the car.”

Buzzworm pulled the orange from his pocket. “Better eat something. Take the edge off the experience. Food is best.” Handed little homey the orange like it was a hamburger. “So you dodged the bullets.”

“No. They curved by me sudden-like.”

“Some say when your time comes, you see everything timelessly. I suppose you oughta see the bullets coming your way.”

“Weren’t my time. Wasn’t like that. Was more like space curved. Shit. Ain’t nobody gonna believe me.”

“I believe you.” Buzzworm nodded. “You got some vision.” He took off one of his watches. It was a waterproof one with a calculator. “Individual who owned this watch did calculations in the shower. Went on to teach math and invest in the stock market. Say he was wearing this very watch when he shook hands with the great Muhammad Ali. Now it’s yours.”

“Ah man.” The kid could probably find himself a better one, but something about Buzzworm. Something about something so simple. Just believing. Made this watch priceless.

Like Buzzworm said, every watch has got a story. Everybody’s got a timepiece and a piece of time. Watch was an outward reflection of your personal time. Had nothing to do with being on time. Had to do with a sense of time. Sense of urgency. Sense of rhythm. Cadence. Sense of history. Like listening to oldies with Margarita. Time could heal, but it wouldn’t make wrongs go away. Time came back like a reminder. Time folded with memory. In a moment, everything could fold itself up, and time stand still.