
Time was x was Malcolm. Newsweek said now it was Shaq; he being the x Generation. What did they know? Hood’d changed. Now it was La X. La equis la equis noventa y siete punto nueve! Everybody was listening to the Mexican station. Doing banda and stepping to the quebradita. Buzzworm was not about to be behind this eight ball. He was listenin’ up too. Keeping up on the news. Keeping up for Margarita and all the others doin’ time in El Norte. Keeping up so’s to be ready with the dialogue. Some wanted to pit black against brown, but looked like one side got the crack, other got the weapons. And everybody got one helluva war, but who was the enemy? To keep it in perspective, somebody had to be there to get the sides to see eye to eye. Order to see eye to eye, had to get with the program. Far as Buzzworm was concerned, program was the Mexican station. It might not have been the source source, but it was tapping it. Course, Buzzworm listened to everything the air had to offer, but he’d been trying to let the brothers know they had to expand their horizons. Couldn’t be tuned into the Beat or the Power only. Not just Hammer, Boyz 2 Men, Snoop Doggie Dog, Kid Frost. Not just the hop over some smooth woman’s vocals. Yeah. Oooo. Oooo. Had to get behind another man’s perspectives. Hear life in another sound zone. Walk to some other rhythms.

Course, Buzzworm knew it just might be a question of maturity. Hard to get a young homey to change channels when it was like the clothes you wear, what defined you, kept you part of the thing. Couldn’t get caught listening, for example, to The Wave; someone bound to think you’d gone cerebral or New Age, lost your ability to hop. Not many big enough to listen to his or her own mind. Still Buzzworm’d convinced some to try jazz. “Try it nighttime,” he suggested, like it was evening dress or dinner food or a nightcap. “Jazz,” said Buzzworm, “is the music of the night.” Hip hop in the day, but reserve jazz for the evening hours. Trust Buzzworm; he should know.

Once he had you listening to the jazz station, then he’d be talking to you about personalities, syncopation, improvisation, blues, fusion. Pretty soon, he was piling on the details, insider stories, anecdotes, hearsay. It got complicated. You had to listen to the station more, call in for requests even, get you some tapes and CDs, find out what you like, participate in the give and take. Pretty soon, you’d find you getting yourself an education. History of jazz followed the history of a people, black oppression, race, movement of the race across the Earth, across this country. Ended up here in South Central. Count Basie and the Duke playing on Central Avenue. 5-4 Ballroom on 54th and Broadway. Charlie Parker, Fats Domino, and Ray Charles at Club Alabam Saturday nights in the fifties. Found out you came from somewhere. History. Buzzworm, he’d catch you if he could.

Had to figure this was the plan when he took some time with the homey who saw bullets curve in space. Kid who saw bullets curve in space either got some kind of imagination or genius. Then too, maybe drugs’d spliced the mind. That was a possibility Buzzworm had to consider when he got the word the boy came up DOA at County Gen. Personally, he didn’t think so; kid had an attitude, not an addiction—that is, of the chemical sort. Buzzworm had a sense about him; thought the boy’d make a fine revolutionary. Still that’s what the report said. Direct cause of death: high doses of a very pure form of cocaine and unidentified chemicals found in the stomach and digestive tract, probably ingested orally.

Buzzworm accompanied the boy’s mother to the morgue to identify the body. “What have they done to him? What have they done to him?” she kept crying. He was beat up bad; hardly recognized the kid. Eyes were two big swollen purple bruises. Mouth and nose same thing. Head blows. Body blows. The whole anatomy all punched out. Kid had one of those thin builds with a fast metabolism on a sudden growth spurt. Now everything was swollen flesh. “What are they talking about? Drugs. Coroner’s saying he OD’d. Boy was beat to death. It’s obvious. What are they trying to hide?”

Buzzworm changed the station and shut his eyes. He had to think about this one. Meanwhile, the mother collected the boy’s things. The watch was there with a few coins, pocketknife, X cap. Watch was still good. Calculator working just fine. How come the watch could go on, but the boy could not? This would be all a mother could bring home of her son—a few worthless tokens in a brown envelope. Maybe this homey had been right. Why did he have to be alive when he was Buzzworm’s age? Well, he wasn’t gonna be.

“You got another son, too? Younger?” he wanted to confirm.

The woman nodded.

He scribbled a number on the back of one of his calling cards. “You ever heard of the ROCers? Group of mamas ROC-ing. Means Reclaim Our Children, see? Can’t do it all by yourself.”

She put the card in her purse.

Homey’s crew was particularly quiet. No one was talking. Nobody pointing fingers. Nobody saying it was them that did it. “What about the drive-by yesterday?” Buzzworm wanted to know. “What was that all about?”

“Just general shooting. Nothing personal. Happens all the time.”

“Boy was beat up. Nothing personal?”

“Beat up happens too.”

“Who did it?”

“Dunno. Coulda been kickin’ it. LAPD come round jacked him good.”

“Maybe kid was jumped out. That what happened?”

“Dunno.”

“Why’d he want out of the crew?”

“Who says he wanted out?”

“Could be took his life to get jumped out.” Buzzworm figured maybe the homey took a beating to end his commitment to the crew. Got beat up to get in; got beat up to get out.

“Can’t prove none of that. Dude’s too tough to die that way. If he got beat up, he walked away. Can’t nobody take his respect away. Gotta give him that.”

“Walked away?”

“So they say.”

“Walked away where? Over a cliff?”

Crew laughed. Cliffs in Watts would be good. Too bad it was all urban flatlands. Only cliffs around: maybe freeway rubble. So they suggested, “Into traffic. Hit and run. Could be.”

“What about the cocaine? Since when you messing with such pure stuff?”

“What?”

Buzzworm couldn’t figure this one. They were just a tagging crew, running around marking up the walls. Bunch of kids running. It was mostly an overdose of hormones and poverty made them run. Running fast, but not fast enough. Things were aiming to catch up with them: drugs, petty theft, assault, robbery. But it wasn’t time for homicide, Buzzworm thought. Wasn’t time. Maybe they were telling the truth. The dead boy had walked away.

One kid in the crew was listening to a Walkman. “What you listening to?”

“What’s it to you?”

Buzzworm smiled, unperturbed. “Gimme a hit off those headphones of yours.”

Kid shrugged and handed him the phones, but Buzzworm was genuinely surprised. “Son,” he said, “this is classical.”

“So?”

“So when’d you go cultural?”

“Trying to listen for this thing.”

“Thing?”

“Shit.”

“I’m listening.”

“Thing in my head. Sounds like this stuff here, see.”

“Beethoven?”

“Bay who?”

Buzzworm gave him back his phones. He felt confused, first about the dead boy who saw bullets curve and now about another homey who listened classical.

Then he remembered Margarita who listened to oldies. Buzzworm looked at one of his watches. It was lunchtime. Maybe he’d wander over and see Margarita at her corner. Sometimes she had her homemade pupusas. He liked the ones filled with potatoes and carrots, but any kind would do today. He got onto the Mexican station; he wanted to razz Margarita with a little mariachi, try to sweet talk her with some Spanish cooing, sing her the Cucaracha, tell her how everything south of the border was México, tell her her kids were all gonna end up marrying Mexicans, make her mad enough to cuss him out in her Pipile language. Maybe even get a few Chupacabra stories in. But Margarita wasn’t there.

Margarita was dead. He got the page. Met the family in a one-room duplex, Pico-Union projects. Margarita had been in the kitchen at the sink, peeling oranges, eating, washing dishes, chopping vegetables, stirring up dinner, doing everything at once. Just like Margarita, doing everything at once. Then all of a sudden: boom. Slips to the ground. Looks like she’s sleeping. Mami! Mami! Wake up! Wake up! What’s happened? They dragged her to emergency. It took hours to get in. The older kid knew when she was dead. He couldn’t hear her heart, couldn’t hear her breathe anymore. Sat there in the waiting room, holding her head, keeping the news to himself, scared to tell the younger ones, wanting to know what he was supposed to do, wanting to be young and stupid again. What he couldn’t understand was what the folks at emergency were trying to tell him, trying to tell him it looked like his momma died of an overdose. Looked like she finally took too much. Too much of what? he wanted to know. Too much of work?

There it was again. Someone trying to tell Buzzworm that an overdose was responsible for death. People who conceivably ought to drug the day-lights out of their poor miserable lives but never did, who withstood beating both physical and spiritual, who anyway, they said, had succumbed. Buzzworm couldn’t buy it.

He went back to Margarita’s corner and stared at the grease spots on the pavement where her cooking once dripped, the scatter of peanut shells and orange peel in the gutter. He searched the waves for Aretha but couldn’t find her. Someone was on a talk show talking about some music in her head, humming it on the radio. Could they play it please? Could anyone identify it? It was driving her crazy. This wasn’t a music program lady but maybe someone would hear her humming and call in and identify the tune. Sure enough, a caller came through humming the same stuff, but no identification as yet. Only thing they knew was it sounded classical. What the hell. Buzzworm zipped into Mexican territory. Maybe he would luck out with some cumbia at least. It was the best he could do for poor Margarita. La equis la equis noventa y siete punto nueve!

