“Have you ever seen an I heart L.A. sticker? People here heart everything else—Ensenada, Hussong’s, Taos, Alaskan Huskies, Guatemala, even New York. That L.A. is a desert paradise, sunshine, blond people, insipid, romantic is B.S. Nobody hearts L.A.” Emi straddled the stool with crossed legs, toes balancing a black heel, her skirt slipping up and down her thighs. She leaned away from the bar momentarily and carefully masticated and moaned. Albacore, wasabi, shoyu, vinegared rice. To die for. Her eyes narrowed and glanced over at Gabriel’s conservative offering of kappa and tekkamaki. She watched him pincer a cucumber roll and swab it in shoyu.

“Hmmm,” Gabriel stuffed the thing in his mouth and nodded. “But I thought you liked the Rose Parade. All those Pasadena señoras,” he swallowed and continued, “playing Castilian Ramonas in black lace shawls on rows of prancing Palominos and bending bosoms to get an interview with Bill Welch.”

Emi grimaced. “Try that,” she pointed through the glass. “Just try it. It’s gooey duck, but I swear it’s not gooey. He wants that,” she announced to the sushimaker, then continued, “Did I tell you? A green-type from Colorado asked me whether we recycle the flowers after the parade. I told her we donate it all to a sachet business that retails in expensive Beverly Hills boutiques which in turn supports a home for battered wives and kids.”

“Maybe we do.”

“Speaking of sachet. I couldn’t get past the first chapter of that book.”

“Chandler? What’s the problem?”

“Orchids don’t smell. They don’t overwhelm you with a languid trop-i-cal perfuuume. Have you ever heard of orchid sachet? Fragrance de Catalaya? Ask any J.A. gardener. Ask any J.A. Ask my dad. Does his greenhouse make your head woozy?”

“Maybe black-and-white orchids smell. The famous Noir Orchid, Angel. I’m surprised a J.A. like you never heard of it.” The sushimaker plopped the gooey duck couple in front of Gabriel. “You may have to eat it yourself,” grimaced Gabriel.

“Just try it. We’ve got to find something else you’ll eat besides those kappas. You might as well eat in any supermarket deli. My mom makes those.”

“I like your mom’s better. She puts sesame seeds and jalapeños in mine. I even like the politically incorrect Spam ones and those tofu bags, too.”

“Footballs.”

“Yeah.”

“Picnic sushi,” Emi sneered. “I can’t take you anywhere.”

“Take me to a Japanese American picnic,” he quipped.

Emi poured another round of tepid sake and stared over the head of the sushimaker at the TV. “I’m glad you have a TV,” she complimented him. “Some sushi bars are too Zen to have one.”

“I like sports,” said the sushimaker.

“Sports sushi,” nodded Gabriel. “Why don’t you make footballs?”

Emi rolled her eyes. The sushimaker continued, “Usually I got on ESPN, but people want a update on the freeway fire.”

Emi nodded. “And it’s hump day. Movie of the week tonight: Canyon Fires. Do you think it can compete?” Emi waited for Gabriel to be appalled.

“Compete?” He shook his head. After all, the movie was on full screen, but the station had conveniently carved out a corner box with continuous coverage of the freeway fire from the NewsNow copter. From time to time, captioning strutted by announcing a dead fireman and how many charred vehicles. The station couldn’t lose. Commercial time rolled along, and so did live action news.

“No difference,” observed the sushimaker. “Fire here. Fire here.” He pointed to the screen and subscreen.

At home, Emi had a set with its own screening boxes. “Look at this,” she had announced to Gabriel when she bought the thing. “I can watch four stations at once if necessary.” This feature had almost finished the relationship. It was taking things to the edge when Emi tried it in conjunction with one of Gabriel’s classic black and whites. He came back from the kitchen with Dos Equis, salsa, and chips only to find Murder, My Sweet in the lower left quarter of the screen, competing with Hard Copy, CNN, and The Three Tenors. If Emi had her way, she would watch TV at Circuit City. She was used to being in a control room watching her network and the competition simultaneously. At any moment, she could judge which channel had the more exciting screen.

“Looks like McDonald’s, Coca-Cola, KFC, and even Nike took a dive this prime time,” she cooed. “With a live offering like this, a remote control could go into automatic. Tsk. Tsk,” she clucked.

“The way you pay attention to this, you’d think you were the station chief,” Gabriel derided.

“I have a five-year plan.”

“How about a reality check?”

“Hey, I don’t wanna hear about your glass ceiling, okay? We’re not going to weep into our sake today, are we?” Emi leaned over, snatched one of the gooey ducks and wiggled the long meaty end of it at Gabriel. “I worked hard to make it this far, but I don’t have any illusions about what I do. I take a show, speed it up electronically, and if that’s not enough, we slash and burn. Mostly it’s very delicate. You hardly notice. Cut. Cut. Snip. Snip. Snip. The point is to keep the integrity of the show (well, sort of), and still get everything to wrap around the commercials. I get it to the second, mind you. There are people below me who would kill for my job, and there are producers who would kill me if they knew who I was. Mostly it’s second-rate stuff. So do I care?” Emi chomped on the gooey duck.

“What’s the point?”

“The point is that anybody can do it. You just have to want to. It’s just about money. It’s not about good honest people like you or about whether us Chicanos or Asians get a bum rap or whether third world countries deserve dictators or whether we should make the world safe for democracy. It’s about selling things: Reebok, Pepsi, Chevrolet, AllState, Pampers, Pollo Loco, Levis, Fritos, Larry Parker Esq., Tide, Raid, the Pillsbury Doughboy, and Famous Amos. Them that’s smart took away the pretense and do the home shopping thing, twenty-four hours. Hey, we’re all on board to buy. So who needs a reality check?”

“It’s depressing talking to you.”

“Let’s change the subject,” Emi agreed.

This time Gabriel did the rounds of tepid sake.

“How’s that gooey duck?”

“Crunchy.”

Emi looked down and around, following the curve of the counter, scrutinizing the customers in varying stages of filling their faces with sushi, tea, and ginger. “Ouu. Let’s people watch.”

Gabriel moaned. This was one of those high school pastimes that Emi had turned into a kind of sophisticated voyeurism. Usually she did it while driving, peering into cars and speculating about the owners and passengers. Emi had a gift for fabricating the most intimate details about other people’s lives. She could easily have written for the National Enquirer. She also had a gift for spotting famous people in bizarre places. Emi called these sightings. Gabriel never recognized half of them, as famous as Emi insisted they might be. Exchanging stalls with Uma Thurman in the women’s room of the Formosa Café or reaching for sausages with Quentin Tarantino in the meat section at Hughes seemed long shots, but there was always a good story.

“Gee, Gabe,” she perked up. “Here we all are, your multicultural mosaic. There’s you and me and the gays at the end of the bar and the guy with the turban. And how about those Caucasian Japanophiles who talk real Japanese with the sushi man? Can we count them too?”

“Sure. Why not.” Gabriel felt generous.

“There’s even white people here.”

The woman sitting next to Emi turned and glared momentarily. Emi absorbed the glare like it was a tanning lamp. Gabriel looked the other way.

Emi continued, “Over there, that woman must be Persian and her friend’s gotta be Cherokee.”

“Cherokee?”

“Okay. Navajo.”

“Sorry to bust your bubble. The one you think is Persian is Chicana.”

“Hey I know a Persian when I see a Persian.”

“Chicana. I know my people, see.”

“What about her date?”

“White.”

“Oouuu, he likes wasabi. Yeah, definitely white meat. Humph.” Emi tossed her hair and swiveled around. “That couple over there is South African wouldn’t you say? And her, what do you think? I figure one-quarter Micronesian, one-quarter Armenian, and one-half Mesoamerican.”

“Her parents met in New Delhi.”

“Yeah her father was a nuclear physicist working for the Soviets, and her mother was a stewardess for Air Peru.”

“He lost his job when the Berlin wall came down.”

“She died in a crash in the Andes.”

“Very tragic.”

Emi paused, mulling over the tragedy of it all—the end of communism and the plane crash over Cuzco, and crossed her legs in the other direction. “Gabe, it’s all bullshit.”

“I know.”

“Cultural diversity is bullshit.”

Gabriel sighed. Of course it would come to this. As usual, Emi would pronounce a new sacrilege.

“Do you know what cultural diversity really is?”

“I’m thinking.”

“It’s a white guy wearing a Nirvana T-shirt and dreads. That’s cultural diversity.” Emi looked up at the sushi chef. “Don’t you hate being multicultural?” she asked.

“Excuse me?”

The woman next to Emi bristled under her silk blouse and handcrafted silver. She looked apologetically at the sushimaker and said, “Hiro-san, having a hard day?”

“Hiro,” Emi butted back in. “I hate being multicultural.”

“Can’t you calm down?” The woman never looked at Emi, but offered up a patronizing smile for Hiro-san. “We’re trying to enjoy our tea. By the way, Hiro-san, it’s just delicious today.”

“See what I mean, Hiro? You’re invisible. I’m invisible. We’re all invisible. It’s just tea, ginger, raw fish, and a credit card.”

“Whatever is your problem?”

Gabriel knew better than to introduce more ammunition. He said plainly, “I’d like a California roll.”

The woman went on. “I happen to adore the Japanese culture. What can I say? I adore different cultures. I’ve traveled all over the world. I love living in L.A. because I can find anything in the world to eat, right here. It’s such a meeting place for all sorts of people. A true celebration of an international world. It just makes me sick to hear people speak so cynically about something so positive and to make assumptions about people based on their color. Really, I’m sorry. I can’t understand your attitude at all.”

Emi stared into a compact mirror and reapplied a glossy layer of red lipstick before she turned around in her seat to meet her sushi bar neighbor in her full frontal glory.

“Emi—” Gabriel felt a sudden panic.

Emi sighed. She noticed the woman’s hair was held together miraculously by two ornately-lacquered chopsticks. Maybe there was some precedent for this hairdo. Gabriel later remembered something about Oedipus blinding himself with his mother’s hairpins. Not an Asian myth however.

Emi said, “Hiro, could we have two forks, please?”

Hiro quickly motioned and signaled for the occidental eating utensils.

Emi examined the forks carefully and held them up for her neighbor. “Would you consider using these in your hair? Or would you consider that,” Emi paused, “unsanitary?”

The woman blanched. Gabriel missed chomping into his California roll. For some reason, the entire sushi bar seemed to tilt and sag with an indescribable elasticity. Gabriel’s elbow lost its surface, and that seaweed, rice, crab, and avocado delicacy tumbled and tumbled.

