By the time Arcangel reached San Ysidro, he no longer really had to pull the bus. The great multitude behind pushed it for him. Pushed it and its passengers and the little boy sitting on his suitcase with the orange. Pushed the Tropic ever northward. Still attached by hooks and cables to the bus, however, Arcangel—naked to the waist—continued to press forward toward his destination: The Village of Our Lady Queen of Angels on the River Porciúncula, the second largest city of México, also known as Los Angeles.

“Which way to the Cajón Pass?” he inquired along the way. “I am told Earth has become soft again, and there is a way through the pass to the great basin beyond.”

“Go back, old man,” people warned. “It’s not what you think. What do you think you will do there anyway?”

“I will sell my art. They say there is free trade now, so here I am. I will perform. I will read my poetry. I am making this pilgrimage to perform my greatest work yet.”

“In the name of the Virgin of Guadalupe, go back old man. Do you have a green card? Do you have a social security card? Do you have any money? When you get there, you will be unprotected. If you get sick, no one can give you care. If you have children, no one will teach them. In the name of Tonantzin and the memory of Juan Diego, go back! You are illegal.”

“Is it a crime to be poor? Can it be illegal to be a human being?”

The crowd behind him agreed. They chanted, “Is it a crime to be poor? Is it a crime to be poor?”

But the people already north warned, “Listen to what we say. We have lived here all our lives, even before the others. Our ancestors hunted the woolly mammoth and the saber-toothed tiger. And still we do not belong here.”

But the old man was unperturbed. “Tell me. Where is East L.A.?”

And the crowd behind, “East L.A.! East L.A.!”

“Oh, Tío Taco. You’re nothin’ but a lazy old freeloading mes’kin around here.”

Arcangel looked offended. “I may seem old to you, but I am still a virile old man. Let me show you.” He held out his strong penis for everyone to see. The crowd behind him cheered.

“Put that away, old man. Old Latin lovers are not wanted here.”

“I have heard there are so many sights to see along the way. Sea World and Bubbles, for example. General Dynamics and Camp Pendleton. The nuclear reactor at San Onofre is described as two giant white tits embedded in the seascape in a cloud of milky steam. Perhaps you could point them out.”

“What do you think you are? A tourist?”

“Can’t you see? I am a pilgrim.”

“We are pilgrims! We are pilgrims!” shouted everyone.

“Old man, the only pilgrims here came on the Mayflower. And that was a long time ago.”

“Ah yes, I remember those pilgrims. I was there at Plymouth Rock when they arrived.”

“Old man, you say

you were with Sitting Bull at Custer’s Last Stand,

at the Bay of Pigs in 1961 and

on San Juan Hill with Teddy Roosevelt in 1898.

You say

you sailed down the Magdalena River with the

dying Simón Bolívar.

You were with Che in Bolivia in 1967

when he was killed, and likewise

with Leon Trotsky just as he was stabbed in 1940.

You saw Tachito Somoza assassinated in Asunción.

You knew Eva Perón, and

you marched with the Mothers of the Disappeared.

You say you flew in 1906 with Santos Dumont and

sailed with Darwin to Galapagos.

You even kissed the Spider Woman.

You were everywhere every time. How is that?”

“Strange how things happen the way they do.” And Arcangel continued on, taking the elevator to the top of Angel’s Flight. It was one of those odd moments in liberation theology in which a messenger named Arcangel stood at the top of Angel’s Flight, looking out over the City of Angels with his arms raised to the heavens and his body fastened to an entire continent.

Sol scrambled out of the bus and accompanied the old man as if he were his tiny assistant or the monkey dancing to the tune of a hand organ. He sat obediently on the suitcase while Arcangel performed tricks of magic, prophecy, comedy, and political satire. He turned a poor man on the street into a dapper gentleman. He produced a bouquet of roses for a young mother. A young man was brought to tears upon hearing the unknown story of his past and his future. Thousands pondered the meaning of modernity, and an old man died laughing.

And then he introduced the famous professional wrestler, El Gran Mojado, who miraculously appeared from nowhere and announced his scheduled bout in the Ultimate Wrestling Championship known to everyone as El Contrato Con América. Like chile con carne, Arcangel said. Flyers were passed out, information verbally reproduced and distributed almost simultaneously with the frenzy of a kind of information saturation. It was probably the last time millions of people were instantly informed of a piece of news without the mechanical aid of television or radio or telephone or newspaper. The entirety of the message was disseminated in a thousand languages, including Spanglish, ebonics, and pidgin, to everyone.

Finally Arcangel juggled the only orange in the city that had not been hidden or confiscated. The crowd surged forward at the sight of the orange, maybe the last good orange in the world. At that moment, its value was incalculable. Its very presence resonated with several thousand oranges rotting in toxic landfills, hidden under floorboards, sweltering in drawers filled with lingerie, or frozen behind the Ben & Jerry’s, hidden in dozens of obvious and ridiculous places because they were now illegal. Customs officials who now chased after their stretching border scrambled forward to confiscate a single orange. Public health officials judiciously counted the orange and posted warnings. The FBI got out its stinking badges. But Sol, who loved the orange, grabbed it and ran in circles. And everything in that geographic nexus churned around and around and around.
