There was a time when the V-6 and the double-overhead cam did not reign. In those days, there were the railroads and the harbors and the aqueduct. These were the first infrastructures built by migrant and immigrant labor that created the initial grid on which everything else began to fill in. Steam locomotives cut a cloud of black smoke through the heart of the West. Yankee pirates arrived with cotton linens, left with smuggled cowhides and tallow. And the water was eventually carved away from the north, trickled, then flooded, into this desert valley. And after that nothing could stop the growing congregation of humanity in this corner of the world, and a new grid spread itself with particular domination. As someone said, now the freeways crashed into each other with flower beds.

Spread across these infrastructures was yet another of Manzanar’s grids: his map of labor. It was those delicate vulnerable creatures within those machines that made this happen: a thing called work. Every day, he saw them scatter across the city this way and that, divvying themselves up into the garment district, the entertainment industry, the tourist business, the military machine, the service sector, the automotive industry, the education industry, federal, county, and city employees, union workers, domestics, and day labor. It was work that defined each person in the city, despite the fact that almost everyone wanted to be defined by their leisure. Every day Manzanar had watched the daily hires hugging their knees on the backs of pickup trucks, looking backwards into traffic, eyes fixed, challenging the pretensions of other workers inside cars that they imagined defined their existence. Now, for a scant moment in history, the poor looked out those same cars.

Little by little, Manzanar began to sense a new kind of grid, this one defined not by inanimate structures or other living things but by himself and others like him. He found himself at the heart of an expanding symphony of which he was not the only conductor. On a distant overpass, he could make out the odd mirror of his figure, waving a baton. And beyond that, another homeless person had also taken up the baton. And across the city, on overpasses and street corners, from balconies and park benches, people held branches and pencils, toothbrushes and carrot sticks, and conducted. Strange and wonderful elements had been added as well. Among them: lutes and lyres, harmonicas, accordions, sitars, hand organs, nose flutes, gamelons, congas, berimbaus, and cuícas. Manzanar nodded to himself. Not bad.

And of course the movement of traffic had almost altogether stopped, not only in the freeway valley below but virtually everywhere. The tenor of this music was a very different sort, at times a kind of choral babel. In its initial movements, a soft angelic quality with the repetitive chorus of the homeless encampment wafted gently above the smoking cinders of quenched fires. As the members of this choir grew exponentially, the thing began to have grandiose proportions only Manzanar could appreciate. The entire City of Angels seemed to have opened its singular voice to herald a naked old man and little boy with an orange followed by a motley parade approaching from the south. Once again, the grid was changing.

Manzanar charged into his music, frantically looking for help. The valley was no longer only ten lanes across or one mile long; it was becoming the entire city and bigger than a tiny island or a puny country the size of San Bernardino. And the approaching parade was dragging in the entire midriff (and maybe even the swaying hips, burning thighs, and sultry genitals) of the hemisphere. The rational forces of the North looked south at the naughty old man who waved his penis around and shook their big collective head. This was a gesture of war, was it not?

Despite the celebratory nature of Manzanar’s great laboring choir, the terror of gunfire ripped across that valley of cars. Manzanar knew it had started with a single shot—the one that had penetrated the soft body of a young woman sunning herself on that news van. That was all it took. The sound of the shot penetrated Manzanar’s very being with a vengeance he did not understand. The moment repeated itself again and again; he clothed it in desperation each time with pain and more pain. Great shuddering sobs welled from within.

The assemblage of military might pointed at one’s own people was horrific, as was the amassing of weapons and munitions by the people themselves. If half of the homeless were veterans of war, then half of the current occupants of the valley suddenly returned to familiar scenes of fear and bloodshed, jumping into the foliage, cowering behind jeeps, lugging knives and rifles, carefully surveying the fray from that big ditch. A single shot heralded the ugly possibility of war. On cue, the thunder of a hundred helicopters announced their appearance on the downtown horizon, strafing the freeway along its dotted lines, bombing the valley with tear gas and smoke. The coordinated might of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines, the Coast and National Guards, federal, state, and local police forces of the most militaristic of nations looked down as it had in the past on tiny islands and puny countries the size of San Bernardino and descended in a single storm.

Manzanar recomposed with difficulty what the generals surveyed on their infrared monitors; a rainbow of putrid green gas and red, white, and blue smoke hid the fray from discerning eyes, muffled the shrieking and wailing. Lines of cars along the slow lanes south and north exploded into flames, golden clouds of boiling petroleum rising in two great walls, further obscuring the deed.

The motley community of homeless and helpless and well intentioned ran in terror, surrendered, vomited, cradled the dying. Manzanar recorded every scream and cry and shudder with dumb incomprehension. And the rising tide of that migration from the South—not foreign to the ravages of war—never stopped, clamored forward, joined the war with both wooden and real weapons, capital, and plunder.

And so the percussion of war cracked and thundered. Horns trumpeted attack. Strings bled a foul massacre. Oh say can you see by the dawn’s early light the rockets’ red glare, the bombs bursting in air?
