Somethin’ about all those airbags burstin’ on some kinda cue freaked out the population. The event had a spiritual quality, like a near-death experience, or Garbo herself slappin’ some sense into your face. Some thought it was the talcum powder. TV stations showed it over and over in slow motion like thousands of white flags unfurlin’ on the general humanity, with Pachelbel doing the honors in tinklin’ golden baroque. Living huggin’ the dead. Homeless huggin’ the propertied. Motherless huggin’ mommas. Childless huggin’ kids. Armed and unarmed. Others their dogs. Everybody in a pure state of shock. Those that had them hugged their SUVs and actually drove them up or down the freeway ivy. Fellow with the Diego Rivera low-rider kissed the mother with her baby. Two of ’em drove away together. Grown men got teary-eyed. The killing stopped for a while.

Buzzworm sauntered through the wreckage with the Red Cross. Watched the safari of body bags creep up Limousine Way. End of the ramp, trio of homeless doing barbecue. Buzzworm knew this trio; they were hardcore. Lived their minds inside a crystal palace. Anything crossed their palms was traded for heaven. It was the only place provided respite, some kinda peace. Anybody else had their lives woulda killed themselves long ago. Skin wrapped around their bones almost without flesh between. No amount of rags or lice or grime or disease could cover it. Victims of hunger. But hunger got to them nonetheless. They were squatting around the fire, sticks poked with some kinda meat. Buzzworm noticed the scatter of blue-and-white baby Igloo coolers. Maybe five or six of them. He knew the coolers. And he knew the shape of the things getting toasted like marshmallows. One of the trio was working his mouth, picked something metal from between his teeth, flicked it out. Looked like a big filling, but he’d a lost all his long ago. Buzzworm skirted the trio. National Guard looking on. He walked away.

Made his trek outta the freeway valley, taking a detour by Margarita’s old corner. For a moment, Indian momma there took him by surprise; coulda been his Margarita. This one had her wares out: big glass bottles of cold fruit juice. It was all passion. Not an orange in sight, neither domestic or imported. Paradigm had definitely shifted. Even so, Indian momma coulda been his Margarita.

Buzzworm finally went home. Grandma’s house down Fifth and Jefferson was still intact. Took a bath. Took a nap. Swept the porch out. Watered the palms: the California and the Mexican fan palms, not forgetting the Washingtonia Robustas. Tossed some seeds out there. Seeds from one of the brothers doing urban gardening on the freeway. Grow there; grow here too.

Been some time since the radio frequencies were screwed. Power was doin’ religion. AM stations were pledgin’. Jazz doin’ hard rock. Hard rock doin’ Warren Alney–like in-depth news coverage. In-depth news doin’ Persian. Persian doin’ Radio Free Cuba. Someone said radio’d become eclectic. Eclectic used to be Tom Schnabel, but he was doin’ gardening. FCC guys must have been jumpin’ off cliffs.

Buzzworm couldn’t get no satisfaction from radio like this. Only thing he noticed with the jumble was that radio was like one big love song. I love you. You love me. I love myself. We love us. We love the world. We love God. We love ourselves but hate some of you. I hate myself but would love you if. You screwed me and I’m learning to love me or that other one. I loved you so I killed you. Radio was more tripped up than his own mind. He pulled the plug.

Same thing with the time. Couldn’t get the coordinates on anything no more. It was like they said. No radio, no watch, nobody would give him the time of day. Once he made his decision, it was easy. Threw his entire collection of watches into a couple of large paper bags and distributed every one. Went up and down everywhere and handed ’em all out like candy. Antique, historic value, oddity, anachronism. They all just went.

Last radio frequency he’d tuned to was Hour 25. Talked about mythic realities, like everyone gets plugged into a myth and builds a reality around it. Or was it the other way around? Everybody gets plugged into a reality and builds a myth around it. He didn’t know which. Things would be what he and everybody else chose to do and make of it. It wasn’t gonna be something imagined.

He had some serious itineratin’ to do. Homeboys fixin’ to do good like a bunch of fool boy scouts, invokin’ the name of Bobby Seale and the Black Panthers. Leftover homeless with their eyes on Worthington Ford’s used-car deals. Congress woman Waters saying we gotta get to the bottom of this orange conspiracy. Contingent of New Age Santa Monicans talkin’ ’bout plantin’ a palm tree for every casualty in the freeway massacre. Vigilante groups disbandin’ to Bel Air. Attorney General arrestin’ and investigatin’. Heal L.A. or heel L.A.

And everybody was wanting to know how to get those airbags back into their boxes.

Unplugged and timeless, thinking like this was scary, Buzzworm gritted his teeth. Took a breath. Manzanar’s symphony swelled against his diaphragm, reverberated through his veteran bones. Solar-powered, he could not run out of time.
