
Harry and the Magic
FactoryA/N: Harry Potter kills
Voldemort as an infant…but then he disappears. A year, the
glorious Potter Emporiums spring up throughout the magical world. No
one knows how or why until 11 invitations fly out into the world
years later.A little borrowing of
some of Roald Dahl's ideas from Charlie and the Chocolate Factory. 
And, just when you think you've guessed what's going on, I'll
change the whole thing for you. It will deal with Voldemort and his
horcruxes. It will deal with the whole wizarding world and its
treatment of magical creatures and also muggles. There's a lot
tucked away inside, just keep reading along! Enjoy!November 1, 1981Diagon Alley was
crowded with jubilant witches and wizards. Voldemort was dead – no
one knew how exactly – but it was true. His Death Eaters had all
suffered unconsciousness and then a long letter, accompanied by
wizard photographs, had made its way to influential people throughout
the Wizarding World. The special editions of the wizarding
newspapers had proclaimed the truth.But while most of the
Wizarding World was celebrating, a number of strange and marvelous
things began to happen. Vast tracts of ancestral lands – Potter
lands for several centuries – disappeared from every map and every
Ministry of Magic record. Then house elves from England and all over
Europe began to disappear as well. Then every Death Eater not in
Ministry control disappeared over the course of the next four months.
 More and more of the Wizarding World disappeared from view, massive
tracts of land that had belonged to the Blacks, the Lestranges, the
Notts, and the Malfoys. It just all disappeared.It was perhaps six
months after Voldemort's fall that people began to really wonder
about the initial details they'd heard. No one had seen James or
Lily Potter or their infant child since that night. Sirius Black
hadn't been seen since November First. And the goblins acted very,
very strangely…even for goblins. None of them would say the first
word about the Potters or any of the other disappeared individuals. 
Indeed, it seemed as though the goblins were scared to speak the name
Potter.Nothing scared a
goblin, but something in this story did. None of the newspapers
could figure anything out. The Ministry launched several
investigations, but none of them revealed the first thing. In fact,
the only thing people could tell for sure was that sometimes witches
and wizards disappeared completely from the world. But within days
or maybe months, they'd return. They'd have unexplained money,
but wouldn't say the first thing about where they had been. Truth
serums and legilimancy would reveal nothing. Not even the healers
for botched memory charms could unravel what had happened.The joy from being free
from Voldemort's terror turned into something else. Fear, fear of
the unknown. What had happened? Was Voldemort really dead? Where
were the Death Eaters hiding and what were they planning?The Ministry of Magic
was particularly agitated. Nearly a quarter of all the lands owned
by wizards had disappeared. Not only become unplottable, but
completely gone. Most of the ancient noble houses were now reduced
to a staff of two or three house elves. Where had the other dratted
things gone? People were screaming about not having enough labor. 
Witches and wizards were having to prepare their own meals and clean
their own clothes. They used magic, but still it was the honor of
the matter.Fear accompanied
confusion. That all resulted in anger and distrust. But before the
whole Wizarding World could lapse into another bout of civil war, a
wonderful thing happened.October 31, 1982As families woke on
Halloween and began to prepare for their days' work, a huge fleet
of owls began delivering massive parcels to every home, manor, and
apartment attached to the Wizarding World. Alice and Frank
Longbottom were among the first to open the large box. Frank let out
a small shout when he had the lid off.Inside the lid was a
brief explanation: "On the first anniversary of Tom Riddle's
death, enjoy a sampling of Potter's Best."Inside were things
familiar and unique. There was a basket of freshly harvested salad
greens, from Potter Farms, and a flagon of pumpkin juice, from
Potter's Preserve. There were sweets of all kinds, from Potter's
Confections, and an enchanted puzzle just perfect for little Neville.
 There was a wondrous bottle of Potter's Reserve Golden Mead and a
set of cloaks, from Potter's Haberdashery. There was a music box
for Alice that never played the same tune twice and an enchanted hat
for Frank's mum, Augusta, that featured a dozen magical birds
flying after each other. There was a box of delightful firecrackers,
from Potter's Pranks, and a small pouch magically expanded to hold
a half dozen books. It was a princely gift and Frank Longbottom had
no idea why he'd received it.But he was intrigued as
to why it had the name Potter on it. Nothing had been heard from
them in over a year. He'd presumed his friends had died in the
war. But…maybe it wasn't so.Across the Wizarding
World, other people and families opened their boxes. In total, as
the newspapers would recount, there were several hundred unique
different items that had been sent out, many of which had never
existed before. It was inexplicable. The Weasley family had
received unexplodable cauldrons and enough food to feed a small army.
 The Patils had received duplicates of everything, but none in
matching colors, perfect for a set of picky twins.The bizarre gifts had
kept to the front of the newspapers until more bizarre news can in. 
The rest of the Wizarding World's house elves disappeared in a
single evening. And empty store fronts in Diagon Alley, Hogsmeade,
and a half dozen other locations seemed to disappear over night. 
They weren't empty…just gone.Then a week after
Halloween, the first major secret was revealed. A dozen different
locations of Potter's Emporium were unveiled. Each one seemed like
a tiny storefront, but inside was a wondrous world. Each store was
larger than the Great Hall of Hogwarts. Each one had thirty-nine
different departments: Pranks, Confections, Produce, Spirits and
Liquor, Clothing, Toys, Muggle Eccentricities, and all the others. 
Beyond the unimaginable variety of items for sale, all bearing the
Potter emblem, was the service staff. House elves were the only
employees. One of them, in the Diagon Alley store, had formerly
worked for the Malfoy family. Even the Ministry's tests showed
that the elf was now freed and working for a wage inside the store. 
Unheard of, of course, which meant that purebloods refused to shop
there publicly. Of course, they sent their newly hired squib
servants into the stores instead.Overnight, the
Wizarding World changed. Hundreds of years of stagnation was
upended. People could pay the exorbitant prices for robes at Madam
Malkin's or they could buy cheaper, better, more interesting items
at Potter's Emporiums. Malkin's responded by branching out into
new fabrics and styles. Everyone began to compete harder. But no
store, no entrepreneur, could keep up with the sheer variety of new
products available at Potter's Emporium. They unveiled three dozen
new things every week, it seemed."How is this
possible," more than witch said in the opening weeks. Others were
heard to say, "How did we survive before this all happened?"Children loved to shop
in the stores. Even husbands and fathers found things to interest
and occupy them. Produce and butterbeer were stacked haphazardly
next to the muggle contraptions. It was shocking how many wizards
purchased a bunch of bitter greens to placate their wives while they
trundled home with a muggle radio or some other piece of foolishness.But, most beloved of
all, were the confections and the pranks. Many confections, of
course, were actually pranks. One could have chocolate in plain,
milk, regurgitating, fire breathing, chameleon color changing,
hollering, or fourteen other pleasant and pranking varieties. Every
time people came in, the variety was different. The favorite of the
week before was perhaps gone, replaced by three new items that could
be equally wonderful. And every so often, favorite items from the
past would reappear for a short while. Witches and wizards became
almost fanatic in their devotion to monitoring what was available at
Potter's Emporium.There were a number of
folks, spearheaded by one Mundungus Fletcher, who tried to purchase
excess quantities of particularly prized Potter items. But they
could never manage to resell anything. The goods would vanish just
as soon as Mundungus or one of his cronies accepted the money. 
Didn't matter if it was a bag of lettuce or a family-sized
pensieve, it all disappeared. Even Mundungus had to smile…it took
a true scoundrel to out-scoundrel Mundungus Fletcher.What no one could
understand, though, was where the elves got all their glorious
merchandise. Who made it and where? None of the wizard
manufacturers had the first clue how much of it was made. None of
the liquor distillers could reproduce the formulas. No one knew
where all the produce was grown or who came up. No one knew where
the ideas came from or where the money went. But the products were
incredible and people continued to buy them.On and on it continued.
 The mystery died down, but the new products kept rolling out. About
twelve years after the stores emerged, the first lines of brooms came
about. They were fast, maneuverable, and inexpensive. Everyone
could play Quidditch at that price.Of course, the
newspapers and various books tried to explain what was happening. 
Why had all the house elves abandoned their houses? Where had all
the country's werewolves gone? Who grew the food and why?The Quibbler kept
trying to prove that a cabal of Crumple-Horned Snorkacks was behind
it. Unfortunately, no one else had a better answer. There were
continual reports of which people had disappeared from society and
when they had returned. Charms experts or herbologists. It was a
matter of weeks or months from these people's reappearance that new
products appeared in the stores.The Potters seemed to
be kidnapping people, getting them to help with special projects, and
then sending them back with a substantial amount of gold. It had
happened to dozens of witches and wizards, but none of them had ever
explained where they'd gone or why.In fact, it was nearly
sixteen years to the day when twelve fast, vicious falcons appeared
out of nowhere clutching letters. No one used falcons for mail
delivery, but someone had figured out how to do it.The first one arrived
at the shared desk of Fred and George Weasley. They were buried in
their entry-level job at the Ministry of Magic disapproving requests
to perform experimental charms or potions. They didn't have the
authority to approve any requests, just to disapprove them. They
hated the work, but needed the galleons if they were ever to get a
start on their joke shop. They planned to give Potter's Emporium
and Zonko's a run for their gold.But the letter they
received that Halloween would change everything for them. And for
several others, eleven in total. Neville Longbottom, Luna Lovegood,
the fifteen-year-old Snape child, and the rest would all have the
opportunity of a lifetime: a visit to what was called Potter's
Magic Factory.Two of the falcons went
out to the Ministry and the Daily Prophet. This would be a show for
all to remember. They were to be given the rarest of glimpses into
the utterly secretive Potter Family.It was all planned for
the 22nd Day of December. The Chosen would appear, be
admitted to the invisible Potter Estate, and then their journey would
begin.December 22, 1997The Chosen, as the
papers began to call them, stood waiting outside a decrepit looking
heap of stone. It looked to be the remains of a once great manor
house.George and Fred
Weasley, wearing their best robes, were quite cold. Their best were
still quite tattered. But neither had been able to sleep more than
three hours at a time since they'd received their golden letters. 
They'd been planning, and scheming, and plotting. Potter
money…that was what they needed to start their shop. Potter money.Neville had his arm
linked with Luna Lovegood's. They'd been a couple now for nearly
a year. In fact, Luna was wearing Neville's promise ring on her
littlest toe. Neville had just laughed when she'd done that. But
it kept away speculation for now. Longbottom was the heir to one of
the great old fortunes, one of the few left after most of the Death
Eater families and properties disappeared.Bracus Snape stood far
away from anyone else. He looked like the youngest person in the
gathering. He was also the angriest looking. His father had
literally tore his arm from its socket when he told Severus that he
was coming to this grand opening. Bracus had snuck into Potter
Emporiums as often as he could, even though his father had banned the
mere mention of the word.Blaise Zabini was
taking in the whole ambience without saying a thing. He had refused
to comment to reporters and was pretending to be deeply neutral about
the whole experience. Of course, with his family's Italian
heritage, it was always hard to tamp down natural emotions, like joy,
excitement, and sheer pleasure. But Blaise was good at hiding for
now.Susan Bones, Colin
Creevey, Lisa Turpin, Fenecule Moody, and Cormac McLaggen all stood
in a tight group and tried to not look terrified. They'd each been
grilled by the reporters washing up against the barrier behind them. 
They were each curious at to why they'd been selected and totally
overwhelmed about what they might be seeing today.The reporters were
gnashing and snarling. So far no one had much of a story. The
eleven chosen weren't saying much of anything at this point. The
pile of bricks in front of them looked singularly unimpressive, too.But, suddenly, the
situation changed. The horrendous ruins shimmered for a few seconds
and then were gone. In their place was a soaring tower, massive and
wonderful. It's base was as large as the largest wizarding
mansion. But then the building began to rise through the sky, a
hundred levels? Maybe more. Reporters were straining their eyes to
see exactly where the building did stop.The entire building
shimmered and glowed. Parts of its seemed faintly silver, others
seemed blue. It was like the building couldn't maintain a single
color, it was too busy to be ordinary.Then the small single
door in the front of the building opened and a small person walked
out from it. He looked remarkable, without a doubt. His dark black
hair seemed to fly in every direction. And his piercing green eyes
shown with an intensity unmatched by any words.But it was the smile on
his face that made him seem larger and fuller than he was. 
Objectively the young man was quite short. But he seemed larger than
life. He walked quickly to the ornate fence separating the eleven
Chosen from this marvel of invention on the other side. When the
young man was within five steps of the gates, the thick iron gates
just melted away, a true display of the glories of magic.The young man reached
his hand out and vigorously shook the hands of each of the Chosen. 
None of them had the slightest idea who the young man was.Finally, he tugged at
each of them, trying to get them to step through into the gated world
hid by illusion. One of the Chosen, Lisa perhaps, asked, "Who are
you" in a rather loud voice.So the young man turned
around, facing the reporters, and proclaimed, "My name is Harry
Potter and welcome to my Magic Factory." A flurry of flashes went
off. The name was distantly familiar, but the Potter part of it made
a lot of sense. Harry dragged his new companions into the space just
as the barrier holding back the reporters broke. But the gates
shimmered back into existence just then.And a massive display
of magic erupted all around everyone. A hundred thousand magical
birds swooped from each part of the massive building in front of
them. And each one proceeded to drop a couple of enchanted flowers. 
Within seconds, the ground was covered in inches of tremulating,
pulsing flowers of every hue and size. The fireworks started just
seconds before the massive shimmering wall that had guarded this
place came back into view. Then the whole place was blocked off, the
image of a decrepit manor house the only thing left standing.The Chosen plus this
Harry Potter and his Magic Factory disappeared from view. No one
knew what to say. It was magic none of them had ever seen before.





--------




Harry and the Magic FactoryA/N: Thank you for
reading along. Hopefully you'll enjoy the upcoming chapters: there
will be a lot of explanation, a lot of fun, and not a few dastardly
pranks a la Roald Dahl.Chapter 2X-c-X-c-X-c-XHarry Potter was a
positive ball of energy. Since he started walking with his crew of
eleven Chosen, he hadn't stopped moving or speaking."…we've wanted to
have people over to visit for ages, ten years or more, but it just
wasn't possible. Now that you're here there is just so much to
see and so much trouble to get into…"Fred and George Weasley
were listening in awe. This sounded like their version of nirvana."…now, we only have
a few days together, I think, but you should be able to see a good
deal of what we've set up here in Great Britain. I apologize that
we won't have time to see the operations in the Americas, Asia, or
the other parts of Europe. Not enough time, never enough, but I
didn't want to risk all of you with one of our experimental time
turners, now did I…"That part caught Blaise
Zabini's attention. He'd always dreamed of a career in the
Department of Mysteries, but with his families questionable
background, he'd supposed he'd never be able to pass the
background checks. Maybe there was a way…"…now this building
ahead of us is not actually the Magic Factory. In fact, it's only
three stories tall, but I set up a particularly wonderful illusion
for our gullible guests outside. Illusion is one of my favorite
classes of magic, I think, so I'll see if we can get us all in to
Potter's Illusions, but I don't think it'll work out on this
tour, you know…"Here the massive
building collapsed back down to a mere three levels. It was still an
impressive building, but it was nowhere near as overwhelming now. 
Colin Creevey was kicking himself that he hadn't brought a single
camera with him. Oh, the things he'd see. Oh, the things he'd
fail to document."…now this is my
ancestral home, Potter Manor, and it is also the home of Potter
Farms. The largest swath of agricultural land is just behind here. 
Should be fun: newt grass, artichokes, and all the other tasties we
have growing this time of year…"Someone tried to
interject that there was no such thing as 'newt grass' but Harry
kept on talking. Luna Lovegood smiled. She knew that the
Crumple-Horned Snorkack considered newt grass a particular delicacy. 
There would probably be a number nearby."…so, welcome to my
home, we'll start the tour here, I think…"Bracus Snape, like a
petulant child, raised his hand and coughed. He'd been warned by
his father exactly what sort of family the Potters were. His father
had obviously been right."Yes," Harry said. 
"Do you have a question…""I have two: do you
ever breathe? And why are we here?"A few people giggled. 
Harry just flushed a little bit, shifted from foot to foot, and then
smiled."Well, my apologies
for keeping you in the dark, my good sir. It's just that I've
been so excited about this for so long, I couldn't control my
thoughts. Never been much of an organized thinker, I suppose…"Bracus Snape cleared
his throat this time."Right," Harry
said. "Yes, when I calm down, I'll speak like a person again. 
And, secondly, you are all here as the first step in revealing the
Potter Estate back to the world. We've been closed up as tight as
can be since that awful Halloween Night. But now it seems a good
time to draw ourselves back into your world, at least a little bit…"No one in the crowd
understood what Harry meant or how exactly important he would become
in the next decades inside the British Wizarding World. But they
were all curious enough to keep on moving through the tour.Harry Potter walked up
the steps to the imposing doors of the Manor House and threw them
open. "Welcome to Potter Manor, please step through. So much to
see…so very much…"George and Fred were
the first ones through. Their faces dropped in astonishment. Inside
what they assumed was an average size hallway were nearly four
thousand house elves. It was obvious they were thinking 'so this
is where they went…'The other Chosen
stopped promptly at the entrance. No one seemed to have the will to
move further inside. But Harry pushed his way through the small,
cowed crowd. "Oh, now I see, you've never met our best workers,
I see…" Here, Harry switched off into a burst of unintelligible
clicking and chattering. "…so I asked only the Oompah-Loompahs
to come up and greet everyone…"Now, more than one
person decided it was time to interject. "These are house elves."
 "There are no Oomper-Lumpies.""…nonsense, you can
clearly see the Oompah-Loompahs in front of you. There are more than
three thousand six hundred Oompahs in this room. But only three
dozen of their leaders, the Oompah-Loompahs. You should feel proud
to meet them, each one heads up one of our divisions here…"More muttering ensued. 
"House elves are called Oompahs here?" "They let these
creatures run a business?""…so, thank you, my
good friends, but we do not have time for tea quite yet… Actually,
I'm quite sure some of our Chosen would enjoy seeing the gardens. 
Let's take five minutes and explore, shall we?"The Oompahs and the
Oompah-Loompahs all bowed toward Harry and then the massive room
emptied. Seconds later it shrunk back down to the size of a normal
hallway. More than one of the Chosen shrieked as a result."…they're all
free, of course," Harry said, jabbering away as he walked rapidly
across the hallway, "we found them in the most horrid of
conditions, you know. Most of them were bound to wizards and many of
them were abused and neglected, horrible, just horrible…"Blaise and Bracus
Snape, among others, felt anger that their house elves had been taken
away by this unusual looking boy in front of them. But only Bracus
admitted it out loud. "What gives you the right to take other
people's property?""Property? Oompahs
can think very well for themselves. My team here just did some
research and figured out how to release the poor dears from their
indentured servitude. Quite a bit less dreary now, aren't they?"Harry beamed in
pleasure. He arrived at the door at the far end of the hallways and
threw it open. Neville Longbottom was the first to gasp in surprise.
 He ran out the door before Harry could stop him."…be careful, my
good sir, this is the experimental section, I believe. It would have
been safer if we went in near the radishes and turnips…"More than one Chosen
was muttering about how plants turned Neville on more than his
well-stacked girlfriend. But Luna Lovegood didn't seem to hear
their disparaging remarks. In fact, she stood on the steps and
wouldn't go down into the fields. But everyone else did. They
were slightly curious about the vast numbers of unusual plants on
display.The bread bush seemed
to be in full bloom: wheat, pumpernickel, and rye. The hybrid
pumpkin vines each grew a full-sized pumpkin in a few hours. The
group just stared as small orange balls seemed to magically inflate
in size and weight."…and over on the
right, we have three very unique plants. The brown and gold bush
produces a small amount of a reddish-gold liquid every day. That
secretion is the best pain reducer we've ever discovered. 
Completely natural, you know, and not at all addictive. Wonderful
stuff, really. The green and purple plants produce small fruits that
taste of chocolate, imagine that, healthy fruit that tastes of
delicious chocolate." Harry was quite enamored of the little
fruits. "But it's that third plant that's truly remarkable. 
It's omnivorous, but it produces the most interesting fruit. Say
we feed the plant a few pound of wheat, some eggs, a side of beef,
and some apples. Well, the fruit would taste of Beef Wellington
followed by flambéed apples. Truly remarkable…"More than one student
proceeded over toward the food tree. But it was Neville, clumsy
Neville, who arrived first. Unfortunately, he managed to fall into
the brown and gold bush, before the semi-sentient plant bounced him
out of its branches, through the chocolate plants, and into the
massive maw of the omnivorous fruit plant.Neville shrieked for a
second before a legion of Oompahs descended on him. They were trying
to pull his inverted form from the hungry plants."…oh dear, poor,
poor Bessie… Her fruit is going to taste absolutely horrible…"But here Luna looked
slightly concerned. Her face faded from dreamy for a second while
she licked her lips and then said, "I think Neville tastes quite
nice, actually.""…Neville with
chocolate… Oh, that won't do, unless we can figure out a way to
sell it to the vampires… Maybe a special kind of blood pop for
them, perhaps…"The commotion died down
and Neville was resting on the ground. The Oompahs had managed to
free him and then promptly began harvesting the remaining, untainted
fruit. They were all fairly angry at their ruined experiment. But
one had the sense to draw a rune on Neville's forehead.Harry noticed this,
then clapped his hands at all the other Chosen. "Well, we must be
off. Neville will rest up and perhaps he will rejoin us later in our
tour. Come along, so much to do… so very much…"He got the ten
remaining Chosen back onto the stairs to the Potter Manor. Bracus
and Blaise were both laughing at how Neville had been partially
digested by the plant. But everyone else was disturbed by what
they'd seen. Everything in the garden was wondrous, but there was
a disturbing danger lurking behind it."Come, come," Harry
said, his whole body resembling an excited humming bird, "next we
have a visit to the Potions and Pranks division."George and Fred Weasley
both smiled. As premiere pranksters, they'd long dreamed of seeing
where all the craziness came from. Who could design that many pranks
and update and vary them so continuously?Both boys, plus the
other Chosen, were very excited and also nervous about where the
remaining tour would take them.But one Chosen, Bracus
Snape, was taking everything in not just for his curiosity… well,
he was genuinely curious… but also because he had specific orders
about his time here. Dumbledore, his Headmaster and his father's
employer, had given him one set of instructions. His father,
Severus, had demanded different answers. Bracus was organizing
everything he saw because he served many different masters.





--------




Harry and the Magic FactoryA/N: Thank you for
reading along. Hopefully you'll enjoy the upcoming chapters: there
will be a lot of explanation, a lot of fun, and not a few dastardly
pranks a la Roald Dahl.Chapter 3X-c-X-c-X-c-XHarry closed the portal
to the Lestrange Estate after all the Chosen had stepped through.The resident bookworm,
Lisa Turpin, was rather impressed at the display of magic. "Harry,
where did you go to school? I never even heard of something like
that portal before…""All in good time, my
dear, we'll all get to see where I attended school. Different
approach, I understand, to what the people at Hogwarts use. Judge
for yourself, but first might I interest any of you in an
experimental sweet? It's just come out of pre-production. Not
even completely sure what it does yet…"Fred and George lit up
at the idea of an 'experimental sweet' from the Potter Estate. 
Both of them stepped out of the crowd quickly."Please, sir,"
George said."May we have
another," Fred finished. Both were fans of muggle culture, taking
after their father to some extent, and couldn't hold a serious
conversation to save their lives.Harry, on the other
hand, looked both of them over and then brought out two tiny pieces
of candy. The smaller, in the Potter world, the more dangerous it
was.So it should have been
no surprise when George swallowed his and promptly transfigured into
a massive lizard that was desperate to eat flies. George-the-lizard
began prowling around the front of the new manor house gobbling up
any insects he came across.Fred Weasley
transfigured into an oversized, disgruntled flying squirrel. He
began climbing the stout trees around the estate and leaping from one
to another.The other Chosen were
frozen in wonder and fear. What the hell kind of sweet could that
be? And why was this crazy black-haired kid transfiguring people
into animals like it was nothing at all. Human to animal
transfiguration, as everyone knew, was extremely dangerous magic. 
Used on the battle field, it could kill.But the lizard and the
massive flying squirrel were really enjoying their day in the sun. 
It was fifteen minutes before Blaise Zabini thought to ask why the
tour had stopped."…why," Harry
responded. "Well, this is your introduction to Potter Pranks and
Potions, of course. We concentrate on the experimental items here,
you know, before we send out the formulas for mass production in some
of our other centers…"The estate and its
manor were massive. And, from the sounds bellowing out from inside,
it sounded like the entire place was in use in designing new potions
and pranks.Bracus Snape was
unimpressed. "What a waste… This entire complex just for simple
pranks. This could be a center for major potions research…""Well, of course it
is, my boy," Harry said, "but all useful things also have side
effects that can make for fun pranking. Why, the heart stabilizing
potion we perfected just last week has a most interesting side effect
for aged wizards… It helps them, you know, when they have bedroom
duties to uphold… A bit of a lift in the spirits, if you catch my
meaning…"The Chosen, aside from
Fred and George Weasley, flushed in embarrassment at what they
discerned Harry was saying. He really was a terribly odd chap."…plus a bit of
hardening of the flesh, you know, quite useful… Saves the heart,
saves the species from dying out, too, you know…"Suddenly, George and
Fred turned back into their human forms. Fred fell out of a tree and
George had a mouthful of half chewed insects. But they were both
ecstatic. It took them seconds to rejoin the others."That was
incredible…""…but I didn't
know what it was…""…I could feel the
animal inside me telling me…""…how to do
everything a lizard does."Harry nodded twice and
smiled. "Exactly right, my boys, exactly right. Well, let's be
off, we have a few rooms inside the Pranks and Potions building we
should see before moving on to our next stop."George's eyes went
wide. "Hold up, there. What was that thing? How did it work? 
I've never felt a prank like that one."Harry frowned for just
a moment. "It wasn't a prank, my dear boy. It was Animagery
Toffee, of course, as you could well see."Bracus Snape was the
first one to respond. "A potion can't turn someone into an
animagus. You can only use a potion to induce a vision state to see
what your form might be…"Harry looked cross for
a few moments. "Well, that just shows you how little you know
about potions, I think. Of course, this wasn't a prank, this
candy. It's a training aid, or will be once it reaches full
production. Then we can give it out and people can learn how to
access their forms without the aid of the candy, you see…"Fred Weasley was
glowing now. He was an animagus. And his form was very, very weird.
 It felt like a perfect day."…as people become
more and more used to their forms, they get closer in size and shape
to the true animal… That's why Fred was such a large squirrel, I
think. But the only problem is what happens when someone uses one of
these candies who isn't capable of an animagus form…"Most of the other
Chosen turned from looking at Fred and George to listening to the
conversation again. They all wanted an Animagery Toffee now, but
they wanted to know the side effects first."…well, we have the
magical reversal squad come in and turn them back into humans, of
course. It would be rather awkward to have to remain a human
consciousness bound into a chunk of toffee for the rest of their
lives… It really is the only reason we haven't released the
toffees to the general public… But it's a big hurdle to
overcome, unfortunately…"Fred and George were
staring at each other now. They both knew they'd never need to
open their own joke shop if they could manage to find a way to stay
here now. Neither one noticed when an Oompah walked over to them and
traced a different rune on their bodies.Harry was about ready
to push the group into the estate so they could visit the Potions and
Pranks labs when Bracus Snape started up again."I know quite a lot
about potions, thank you. My father is the premiere potions
researcher in Europe, founded his own company, thank you. And I
don't believe a word of what you're saying. If it's true, then
why don't you give me one so I can see for myself? And why don't
you fess up as to what your animagus form is there, Harry."Harry just smiled. 
"Oh, you jest, good young man. Very droll." Here Harry began to
ignore the rather bitter young man. But inside he was curious and
slightly happy at Snape's conduct. He hadn't wanted to invite
this person, but it seemed his advisors had been correct. "So,
step inside. Mind the office on the right, we're testing portable
quicksand in there right now. Might take a few hours to dig you out
if you manage to fall in, I'd say. On the left, in the next three
offices are our public testing areas: up for review now are the
Prodding Potion, which speeds a person up to twice their normal speed
when walking, talking, or the like, the Arachne Potion, which we
designed to cure phobias toward spiders but it also seems to work
with most other fears, the cure to lycanthropy, tough bit of brewing
that one, been in planning and experimentation for years…""Impossible," both
Blaise and Bracus yelled out. Bracus continued the charge, "everyone
knows that werewolves can't be cured. They can be killed, but not
cured."Harry pinched up his
face. "Well, that's the silliest thing I've ever heard. Hold
on." Harry walked toward a locked office door and poked his head
inside. "Remus, my friend, why don't you come out here and meet
some of the Chosen. They're saying the most preposterous things
I've ever heard."So when Harry returned,
he was followed closely behind by a distinguished looking wizard. 
"Remus, the gang. Gang, this is Remus Lupin, our Master of Pranks
and Potions and former werewolf."Blaise and Bracus
weren't having any of it. "That's the worst joke I've ever
heard…" "Are you deaf? There is no way to cure lycanthropy…"Remus just smiled, then
he stepped to a side wall and pulled out a pensieve. "Here, now
pay attention." He tapped the pensieve and it began to display
images. "This is me being bitten when I was very young. This is
one of my more painful transformations when I was fifteen, your
father almost found himself my victim then, young Mister Snape. And
this is the day when I tested the Werewolf Cure on myself. It should
have either worked or killed me. But I'm still kicking and that
disease inside me died…."The Chosen were now
paying attention. Remus joined Harry for the next parts of the tour."…this corridor is
solely where we work with useful potions to make them appropriate for
pranking. We develop mild love potions in this room and shape
shifting potions in the next. Further down the corridor we produce
befuddlement and other painful brews…."The group just marveled
at what they saw. The potions being used here for pranks had never
been seen in the wizarding world before, none of them.But Harry was oblivious
to their assembled awe. "…and in the other wing, we concentrate
on more traditional potions. The first floor is for healing potions
of various kinds. The second for various concealment and
beautification unctions. The third is for potions with a military or
battle function…. And the fourth is the most important area, but
we don't have time today to visit. Well, keep up, we must be off…"Harry kept his group
moving. From time to time, he'd pull a seemingly random potion
vial off a wall and hand it to the one of the Chosen. Susan Bones
received a Shimmer Shammer Potion so that her hair would have a mild
color-changing component in it for the next month, the tints shifting
from pale gold to a fiery red. Cormac McLaggen received a potion
that made his rather pitiful, misshapen facial hair turn into a
beautiful, well maintained beard within thirty seconds. "Painfree."
 Colin Creevey got a potion that relieved his deviated septum so his
snoring wouldn't attempt to destroy whatever home he happened to be
staying in. And Luna Lovegood received a green liquid that left her
free, for the first time in a long time, to be able to actually
concentrate her attention.Harry brought them to
the edge of the stairs leading up to the fourth floor before he
stopped."No… We really
can't. Not enough time and way too dangerous."Remus nodded. "That's
exactly right, Harry. I rarely go up there and I run this division. 
Scares the Merlin out of me.""Hmm," Harry said. 
"Perhaps I can show them the secret project we're running on this
level. What do you think, Remus?"Remus looked frightened
for a few moments."That's a Potter
Estate secret, Harry. And these people aren't Potter employees. 
They haven't sworn the oaths…"Harry hung his head. 
"I guess you're right. Oh well, time to be moving on…"Of course, the Chosen
were now completely and thoroughly curious about this secret. It
took five minutes of badgering before Harry could even get a word in."…well now, I guess
I can say that this potion isn't at all experimental. But it's
also something we will never release for public consumption. It's
simply too dangerous…"More than one Chosen
blanched. They'd already seen numerous bizarre and dangerous
things, but this young man Harry Potter hadn't yet called anything
dangerous. This new potion then, it must be a real doozy."…you see, if you
take it once, you become closer to your own magic in some way, a
beautiful gift of some sort. Families used to remember how to help
unlock the magical gifts residing in their children, but that
knowledge fell to the side during the Dark Ages, I'd expect. Now,
we've recovered a bit of it from dusty vaults and forgotten tomes,
but this potion helps. The problem is if someone ever tries to take
a second dose. Just strips a person's magic right out of them. 
The Gift Potion doesn't let anyone abuse it…"Bracus Snape thought
about what he'd heard so far. He knew this place was the Lestrange
Estate, he'd seen the name carved into the cornerstone of the
building. He was also categorizing everything he'd seen about
potions creation while here. Most of the stuff had never been
attempted before and these yahoos were nearly complete with their
work. His father would be livid if he found out – until Bracus
could be sure that his father got a copy of the recipes. But this
Gift Potion sounded like it was best thing ever created – assuming
it actually worked – and Bracus needed to get his hands on it."So, what gift did it
give to you, Mister Potter?" This was Bracus at his most charming.
 Which meant there was no charm at all involved."I'm sorry, my dear
sir, for reasons that will become apparent later on, I am unable to
utilize either the Animagery Toffees or the Gift Potion. But, Remus
here received a wonderful gift…"Remus nodded and
smiled. "I took it before we destroyed my lycanthropy, and I hoped
the Gift Potion would free me. But it did something else instead. 
It unlocked my ability to perform wandless magic. Wonderful thing,
not having to worry about a wand…""Absolutely," Harry
said. "Most of the magical gifts require some effort to access
them. A few, like being a Parselmouth or being a Seer, just manifest
when they choose to. But the ability to read auras, or to heal at a
deep level with pure magic, or to expand one's own magical core,
these all require effort to unlock. The old families knew and forgot
how to do it. So now the Gift Potion can help. The witches and
wizards with the smallest magical cores frequently develop larger
ones. More powerful witches and wizards develop other skills and
talents: like empathy or natural mental occlusion barriers or
elemental affinity or…"Harry was now
discussing a favored topic of his: gifts and what people did with
them.But Blaise Zabini,
Prince of the Slytherins, was on the prowl. He, too, wanted the Gift
Potion. But only for himself."Hold up, Potter. I
think I'd like some of this Gift Potion for myself."Harry Potter stopped
his joyful, waxing metaphors about gifts for a few second. Then he
saw a small Oompah slip a piece of parchment into his hand. Harry
read it, ignoring his Chosen, and then smiled."That's just fine,
Master Oompah. I'll tell them now. Masters Weasley and Weasley
will need to remain behind here at Pranks and Potions for some time,
I'm afraid. We need to check on your reaction to the Animagery
Toffee. Apparently you both showed some abnormal signs. But,
everyone else, it's time for us to continue on, I think…"The Chosen groaned. 
With as scatterbrained as this Harry Potter seemed to be, they'd
never get him back on to the topic of Gift Potions.Not that Harry cared,
he started leaping down the stairs, letting out little shouts of joy
the entire way down. Once the other Chosen, minus the Weasleys,
assembled behind the Manor, Harry opened up another Portal and
started pushing people through."Welcome to the Goyle
Estate and Potter's Confections…"





--------




Harry and the Magic FactoryA/N: Thank you for
reading along. Hopefully you'll enjoy the upcoming chapters: there
will be a lot of explanation, a lot of fun, and not a few dastardly
pranks a la Roald Dahl.Chapter 4X-c-X-c-X-c-XThe visit to the
Confections Division went poorly. Colin and Blaise were both nearly
green from eating too much chocolate. Cormac McLaggen spooned
whipped cream and mint chips onto Lisa Turpin's face and attempted
to lick them off. And then Fenecule Moody accidentally fell inside
one of the large chocolate mixing vats. By accidentally, it means
that Blaise and Bracus Snape sort of helped him in.After the Oompahs
pulled Fenecule out of the chocolate, Harry left Fenecule there to
recover, it's not easy to remove chocolate from inside one's
lungs, and portaled the rest of the group to the Crabbe Estate and
Potter's Haberdashery.The continually
shrinking group was met by a rakish rogue of a man, with healthy
features, long black hair, and a perpetual smile etched into his
features. Harry introduced him as, "Sirius Black, Master of Pranks
and Duelling, Head of our Haberdashery Division and a few other
things…"The man, Sirius, bowed
deeply toward Harry and then pursed his lips in amusement. "How
have the Chosen enjoyed their tour?""I don't know,
Uncle, we've been so busy seeing the sights that I haven't asked
anyone what they thought…"This unleashed the
floodgates. "Animagery Toffee…" "I'd like to try the Gift
Potion…" "How do you grow a plant that produces chocolate
fruit?" "Why do you need a monster-sized pot to stir chocolate
inside?"The Chosen were
definitely a curious bunch.But Harry Potter and
Sirius Black just smiled. "Apparently they're enjoying
themselves," Sirius said. "So, let's be off to look at what we
do at the Haberdashery…"At this, the Chosen
sort of groaned. Clothing certainly wasn't as interesting as
Pranks or Confections. But Sirius could make anything fun.He led everyone into
the large ballroom of the estate's manor. But it wasn't
configured for a party. No, a dozen witches and wizards were inside
using their magic to unravel and unfurl hundreds of yards of cloth,
while scissors and shears carefully cut out the necessary portions. 
Hundreds of needles were in motion all over the room.Sirius let everyone
take in the scene for a few moments before he ushered them out and
toward another door. "That was the cloth room, pretty standard
fare in there really. Here is the silk room, spider silk,
acromantula silk, all varieties…"Next came the denim
room – "mainly for our Muggle-based businesses, you see" –
and then the unmentionables room. The boys were all blushing a bit
as they took in the see-through laces that made up the production of
the room.Susan Bones hissed,
"Only a guy could come up with designs like these. Women would
never think up something that painful to wear…"Sirius, of course,
overheard it. Then he began filling in Susan with his vast knowledge
of exactly which women he'd known who'd worn things very much
like these. It seemed Sirius had quite a reputation in certain parts
of Muggle London.Bracus Snape and Blaise
Zabini were getting bored looking at clothes by this point. But the
insane man in front of them had some sort of Mastery in Duelling, so
they thought it best not to annoy the man. Instead, they tried to
turn the conversation away from haberdashery and back onto this
bizarre world they were ensconced within."So, Potter," Snape
said, "where exactly did all these estates come from? Different
names like Lestrange, Crabbe, and Goyle…"Harry turned around
from showing off a dressing dummy and looked at Bracus Snape. "Not
a very interesting question, is it? Discussing the differences
between Muggle and magical fashion is part of the purpose we're
here now. Please get in the spirit…"Bracus wasn't having
it. "No, how did you steal all these estates? Most of them
disappeared years ago…"Harry flashed a slight
look of annoyance. "I assure you, my boy, that I've stolen
nothing. All these lands we'll see, plus much more, rightfully
belong to the Potter Estate."Blaise smirked. "I
don't believe this either. I've read up on what happened during
the Death Eater War. All these estates came from people who were
Death Eaters…"Harry nodded, glad for
an intelligent fellow. "Exactly right. Formerly Death Eater
estates, now and forever Potter's. Very simple, just like that."
 Harry turned back to the dressing dummy, but all of the other Chosen
were now interested in this topic.Lisa Turpin joined the
conversation. "Kind of a big switch there, right? Care to fill in
the intervening steps? No one just gives up their estates…"Harry rolled his eyes
for a second and let the piece of fabric in his hand drop. He looked
like he was preparing to address very disobedient seven-year-old
children. "I suspect you don't know much about Wizarding law or
tradition?"He hadn't expected a
response, but Blaise, Bracus, and Cormac McLaggen all attempted to
defend their honor."Bah! Let me give
you a quick lesson in Lordships under the wizarding law. Unlike the
Muggles, where Lords come from the Queen's goodwill, a wizard lord
comes from his strength and ability to convince other wizards to
follow him. So, this Lord Tom Riddle person assembled a crew of
vassals, called Death Eaters, and began attacking people…"No one could say
anything to Harry's irreverent use of the name Tom Riddle. In the
old days, parents reminded their children, speaking the name Tom
Riddle was the equivalent of a death sentence. But no one killed
Harry, so he kept on speaking."…then came my
parents. They'd hidden because of some ridiculous prophecy and
were betrayed by a friend. This Tom Riddle person killed my father,
then my mother, then he attempted to kill me. Let's just say it
didn't work….""You couldn't have
killed him," Bracus Snape shouted."I didn't say I
had. I did defeat him, though…"No one had ever heard
this version of the downfall of the Dark Lord. The description
printed years ago in the wizarding papers, and then reprinted in text
books and the like, had never spelled all this out."It's all lies,"
Snape shouted again. "So how did you steal these places from them,
oh great conqueror?""…if you knew
anything about laws and traditions, any person who defeats a Lord in
combat earns the perpetual right to all that Lord's possessions,
including all of his vassals and all of his vassals' belongings. 
That pesky little Dark Mark they all wore is more than enough to
establish them as vassals, so we seized all our spoils of war. It's
actually all on record in your Ministry of Magic, you know… But no
one ever bothers to look in a lot of those dusty tomes."The remaining Chosen
all seemed a bit shocked that this crazy-seeming young man had just
said something so profound about the wizard world they hadn't
known."…but, enough of
this tosh, let me show you to the custom fabrication room. That's
where truly exciting things happen in men's fashions…"The slightly stunned
group followed along. It wasn't until they got to the dragon hide
rooms – for armor and other protective devices – that Bracus
Snape recovered his poise."I suppose you
murdered all the Death Eaters, then, since the Dark Lord killed your
parents?"At this, the tall,
shaggy haired man laughed. "Oh, that's rich…"Harry looked sour
again. "No, I've never murdered any of them. At first, Sirius
and Remus kept them locked up in a dungeon, but eventually we
discovered how to make all of them vassals to me in a magical sense. 
Once we did the ritual, we let them go…""That's got to be a
lie. If they're 'free,' then why has no one seen them in
years?"Harry pointed to one of
the witches in the dragon hide room. "Bellatrix Lestrange." At
that command, the woman stood up. "Tell everyone what you've
been doing for the last dozen-plus years…"The unattractive woman
looked confused for a second then she started to talk. "I was
apprehended in 1981, imprisoned for five years, and since then I've
been working here or at another part of the Potter Estates, as best
benefits my lord." She raised up her left sleeve. "The mark my
previous lord gave me disappeared and a lot of my sanity has returned
since then. You sound skeptical, young Snape, but I actually enjoy
my work. And I enjoy a pain-free life."Harry nodded at the
woman and she sat back down and resumed her work, humming the entire
time.Bracus Snape was in
shock. This most feared Death Eater was humming while using her
magic to sew. It had to be a lie."Where's Lucius
Malfoy, then?"Bracus had had personal
lessons from his father on the Death Eaters. He knew every name.Sirius responded to the
question. "Lucius died a few years back…""…because you
killed him…" Bracus attempted to shout."…we think because
of the lasting effect of the Cruciatus Curse. He always refused
treatment for it. Narcissa is currently at one of the estates in
North America, but perhaps you'll meet Draco or his younger brother
Tertullian. They should both still be in school by the time you
arrive there."The murmuring started
again. "They have a school here?" "They're keeping slaves,
these vassals?" "There are kids here?"Harry was beginning to
collect his Chosen together when he noticed something odd. Cormac
McLaggen had used the argument to hide over in a corner near where
some of the completed items were stored. It looked like Cormac was
just now rearranging his clothes. And he looked bulkier now for some
reason.Harry decided to make a
lesson out of the young man. He nodded to Sirius, then pointed to
the suspected thief. Sirius brought up his wand and began banishing
portions of Cormac's clothing. His shirt was gone, revealing
expensive dragon hide armor underneath. Sirius banished the lad's
pants to discover that he had also stolen dragon hide breeches. How
he'd had time to steal the clothing and dress himself in it, no one
knew. He'd been nearly naked just ten feet away from everyone
else."That's a practiced
maneuver. I'd expect a lot of your fancy clothes have been
purloined the same way," Sirius said.The Oompas entered the
room and restrained Cormanc. Harry ushered everyone else out before
the Oompahs decided to unceremoniously strip Cormac McLaggen of
everything he wore. The boy obviously didn't have many talents,
save stealing, and Harry was sure he didn't want to scare his
remaining Chosen with Cormac's meager physical assets."Oh, dear," Harry
said. "If the Oompas detest anything it's liars and thieves. I
fear they will not go easy on that young man. Oh well, we all still
have much to see and do, I think. Shall we continue on?"The Chosen were ready
to move on and distance themselves from one of their thieving
brethren. But Sirius wanted to hand out gifts first. Every
remaining Chosen received a dragon hide wand holster.A princely gift."Come, come,
everyone. We're shrinking in number rapidly," Harry said,
without a single care in his voice. As if he had expected just this
kind of situation. "But there is still so very much to see, so
much to explain."That part of Harry's
spiel was new: the promise to explain. He'd only really been
hinting about what had happened to Voldemort and his Death Eaters. 
Would he really explain it all in detail? Any one of the Chosen
could use such information in a dozen different ways. And everyone
of the Chosen had another hundred questions they wanted to ask about
what they had seen in this place.Harry brought them all
back outside, then he opened another portal. When they arrived at,
"Potter's Necromantics, on the Malfoy Estate," more than one
Chosen screamed. Because there was a very peculiar lifeform that
came out to greet Harry and his Chosen. A massive specter moved out
of the Manor and came down toward the group. Harry got excited and
ran toward – who in their right mind runs toward a ghost, by the
way? – the ghost. He babbled rapidly with the ghost for a few
moments before Harry turned around again."Ladies and
gentlemen, this is my father, James Potter."





--------




Harry and the Magic FactoryA/N: Thank you for
reading along. Hopefully you'll enjoy the upcoming chapters: there
will be a lot of explanation, a lot of fun, and not a few dastardly
pranks a la Roald Dahl.Chapter 5X-c-X-c-X-c-XBracus Snape was
choking on his own bile. He was collecting information like crazy,
but he hadn't managed to steal anything worthwhile yet. No Potions
formulas, no sets of armor, nothing special. Then this Potter
arsehole keeps taunting everyone with scraps of knowledge. And then
this ruddy ghost is the kid's father.Bracus was plotting. 
He didn't know when or how, but he would climb to the top of this
heap. He would win, for his father, even for that meddling
Dumbledore.Let this Harry Potter,
his ghost, his dueller, and his supposedly ex-werewolf attempt to
stop Bracus Snape.At the same time Bracus
was plotting, Harry Potter was attempting to introduce his father,
the ghost, to the other Chosen. "Attempting," of course, meant
he was trying to revive a couple of them who had passed out. All
Hogwarts students were aware of the resident ghosts there, but none
had ever met a ghost so recent or one who could be claimed as family."…after we
confiscated all these lands," Harry said, "we hid them with
secrecy charms…""Like the Fidelius,"
came the question from Lisa Turpin."Similar in theory,
but older, stronger, and impervious to breakage or betrayal…. It
took us more than two years after that to recruit in enough people
with necromancy talents to solve the problem of how to communicate
with my father and mother. We extended invitations to ten, got five
of them to come and join us, and that was the birth of Potter
Necromantics. Of course, all of the products and research done here
is still off the market…"Thus Harry went back to
sounding like a mad inventor. But Lisa had enough thoughts in her
head to challenge him. "Hold on, you would have been about four or
five when all this happened. How can you claim to have done these
things?"James Potter smiled. 
His teeth were an ethereal white. "Harry was too young to help
with the founding of the Potter Estate, as it now exists, my friends
Sirius Black and Remus Lupin did that. They put everything under the
original Fidelius, then started rounding up Death Eaters and
capturing their estates, then they were bored and looking for
something else to do. So they raised and began training my son, they
also started the businesses that made up the first offerings at the
Potter Emporiums. It was my young son, however, who demanded that
Remus and Sirius figure out some kind of magic so they could talk to
ghosts." James waved his hand over his own incorporeal presence
dramatically, indicating that the research had been successful. "He
was the one who demanded that Potter Emporium products start
spreading throughout the world – magical and muggle. We solved the
problems there by using multiple names and businesses throughout the
world, but everything belongs to the Potter Estate. He demanded that
the Death Eaters be made useful, instead of leaving them caged. And
he proposed our first form of governance then, but we've been
through two revisions since then. Even at the age of five and six,
Harry had some spectacular ideas…"Harry just pursed his
lips at this form of praise and started walking the halls of this
smaller Manor house. They were getting off track."…so this is
primarily a research facility. We have the tools to allow willing
ghosts to enter the living world, and have developed tools that would
banish any ghost back to the spirit realm. We've developed means
for simple communication, without the need for a summoning of a
ghost, with the spirit realm… All very useful things, of course…"Harry pushed open the
doors to enter one of the research areas. Susan Bones was the first
to push in behind Harry. Susan wanted to know more about
communicating with the spirit realm.She began her question
shyly, "Could someone demonstrate how to use this communication
method?"Harry smiled. Then he
nodded at one of the ghosts working in the research lab, for there
were nearly three times as many spirits here as living witches and
wizards, and the ghost pulled Susan over to a desk in the corner of
the room."…now the current
focus of a lot of our new research is on spiritual possession of the
living, the kind that happens to a Seer delivering a prophecy or when
a wizard uses mind magics to possess and control another witch or
wizard. The dead can do it and so can the living. There's a lot
to study here…"Aside from Susan Bones,
whose parents had died when she was very young, the other Chosen
seemed mostly cowed about the massive force of ghosts running this
research laboratory. It seemed awe-inspiring and terrifying at the
same time.Harry and his Chosen
moved through the other rooms of the Necromantics division quickly. 
James Potter demonstrated how he could slip between realms using a
device that Sirius and their earliest necromancers had developed. 
Other ghosts demonstrated devices meant for disrupting the work of
evil necromancers, people who would create Inferi. It was very
informative time.When it was time to
leave, Harry popped his head back into the first room and saw that
Susan Bones was still communicating with the spirit realm. Harry
nodded at an Oompah, who marked Susan with a small rune, and then
went back to his remaining Chosen.Harry quickly ushered
the few remaining Chosen to the Potter Press, located at the very
edhe of the MacNair estate. The location drew some admiring oohs and
aahs. Because the Potter Press was at the distant edge of what they
referred to as the Village.The Village was more
than that, of course. It was a center of business in the hidden
Potter Estate. There were a half dozen different shops visible from
the distance of the Potter Press and many more still hiding in the
Village. It was a place where people lived, where children played. 
It felt real. More real than Diagon Alley or Hogsmeade. Real living
happened here. Houses were next to shops. Next to a massive school
at the complete other end of town.But Harry herded them
all inside the Manor building that housed yet another business. 
"Welcome to the Potter Press. We publish books on magic, on the
connection between the magic and nonmagic world, and many other
things. We also publish a daily newspaper that's distributed
around the world…"At the word newspaper,
Colin Creevey was almost jumping up and down in his excitement. The
words that spewed out of his mouth were mostly unintelligible, but
Harry did manage to reconstruct some of it."…camera's back
at home…newspaperman just like my old man…better photographs than
anyone has ever seen…"Harry pushed through. 
"…yes, we do print photographs in it." The remaining Chosen
seemed to find this amusing. "And we also publish a line of
training devices, like pensieves I guess, that allow a master in a
subject to deliver lessons to a student without it having to be in
person. It's a rather convenient way to pick up history or
languages or magical theory…"Harry guided them into
the room and handed each of them a book – from a massive stack –
and a short newspaper.Blaise and Bracus were
each plotting on how to slip outside with these items, as proof of
the other things they'd learned, when Harry told them all they were
free to keep them. "However, when you leave the wards, the
newspaper will go blank and the book will refuse to open until it's
back inside the wards. So take them as odd souvenirs, but don't
expect them to be of much use."Harry took them all on
another whirlwind tour. They walked past the desks of the reporters
– mostly empty, as folks were out and about collecting news – and
looked at the spectacular wall of major headlines:"Last Confirmed Death
Eater Captured" That was from the inaugural issue."Potter School Opens;
First Class of Fourteen Children Enters School""All Death Eater
Assets Confiscated As Reparations" Blaise and Bracus read
everything in the associated article carefully. They also kept their
faces tightly controlled. They didn't want to give away their
extreme interest and displeasure."Potter Emporiums in
England Top 100 Million Galleons Per Year" That was five years
after the first store opened."Potter Trust Opens;
Joint Venture with Goblins""Potter Family
Rescinds Its Compact with British Ministry of Magic; Establishes Own
Government" This one got some confused murmurs from a number of
the Chosen. How could a family leave a government?"Potter Estate
Purchases 6 Large Muggle Companies; Branches Into Food, Travel, and
Medical Industries""Elective Government
and Representative Democracy, Harry Potter Says" The Chosen were
again confused. How could this young guy leading them on a tour have
anything to do with a form of government?"First Group of
Masteries Awarded: Defense, Potions, and Duelling" That was from
1988."Citizenship Laws
Established: All Potter Masters Awarded Automatic Citizenship""80 Million Acres
Purchased and Hidden in North America: Here Comes Expansion" More
jaws dropped. That was a massive amount of land to afford. And even
more difficult to hide. How could anyone pull that off?"Potter Estate
Worldwide Revenue Tops 780 Million Galleons" The year was 1993."New Masteries
Established in Muggle Fields: Languages, History, Mathematics,
Sciences, and Technology""Four Defensive Pact
Treaties Announced: Centaurs, Sirens, Giants, and Werewolves as
Allies" Blaise and Bracus, at the least, knew how difficult it had
been for the Death Eaters to attempt any treaties like these. If
these clippings were true – and these papers were likely just as
honest as the Daily Prophet was, Blaise thought with a note of
caution – then they really had something going on here."Potter Enters China
and South America; More Land and Companies Acquired""One Thousandth
Mastery Awarded Today: Maeribeth Tompkins, Warding and Runic Magic""100 Year Plan for
the Potter Estate Unveiled Today; Referendum Vote Scheduled for One
Week Hence"And the last headline
in the bunch was from a paper a few weeks earlier. "Potter Estate
Revenues Top 9 Billion Galleons; Muggle Business Booming, Wizarding
World Flat"The Chosen couldn't
even begin to comprehend numbers like that. But one of the Chosen,
Colin Creevey, hadn't had the patience to stick around to really
observe everything. He'd already snuck off toward the photography
lab. Harry had watched the slight young man head off. Whatever
makes a person happy, Harry decided.Harry started trying to
talk to his Chosen again about the Press, but they had other
questions in mind now. And they all seemed to come at once.Lisa Turpin asked, "How
did you withdraw from the British government? We're still in
Britain, aren't we?"Bracus Snape shouted,
"How dare you claim assets that don't belong to you…" Of
course, he'd forgotten the earlier explanation of how and why the
Death Eaters had come into the ranks of the Potter Estate.Luna said something
about, "Pacts with Werewolves only support the Rotfang Conspiracy…"
but then she remembered she was supposed to be shouting a pointless,
unanswerable question. So she also said, "What do you spend all
the money on?"There were other
questions, but Harry didn't get a chance to hear them. At that
moment, the massive printing presses turned on and then a shrill
scream echoed through the building. Harry pushed his way further
into the press room and saw a red-skinned Colin Creevey who was
otherwise devoid of clothing.His explanation ran
something like this, "…leaning over it to get a better view with
this borrowed camera, you see… when it started up, it just ripped
my shirt and tie off… then somehow all my other clothes, including
my socks, disappeared straight inside, too… never been so
embarrassed in the last hour…"Of course, the printing
press was running perfectly fine, with no sign of clothing anywhere,
and Colin's private anatomy seemed more than a little excited about
what had happened to him. So it most likely wasn't a true story.Harry shook his head,
conjured some clothing without the use of a wand (which no one seemed
to notice), and had his Oompahs help the lad to dress. Privately,
Harry thought that the poor young man rather enjoyed standing naked
in front of a group of people. But who was Harry to speak against
such a harmless form of sexual relief.Harry gathered up the
few remaining Chosen and began pulling and tugging them out of the
room. It appeared that Blaise and Bracus, at the least, enjoyed
watching Colin as much as the other man enjoyed being watched.Harry got them all out
of the Potter Press and started pushing them toward their next
destination: Potter Technologica. He knew that his father and
another guest would be joining them there.Harry was beginning to
feel tired by this point of the day. Aside from a few early on, like
the tricksy Weasleys, Harry wasn't much impressed with the raw
material he saw in front of him. But he'd proposed his program of
Potter Apprentices, to help begin tying the outside world together
with the Potter Estate, so he had to follow through. This first
round just might not be very successful.But Harry pressed on. 
"…our research center for all things Muggle and for the
combination of Muggle and magical. Like a television that runs on
magic…" Here Harry got blank stares. There were only purebloods
remaining. "…or an enchanted icebox even a muggle can use." 
Here Harry just got scowls from Bracus and Blaise.Harry kept himself from
rolling his eyes. Instead, he turned around and gestures to his
father and their new guest."May I introduce
everyone to my mother, Lily Potter." The pair of ghosts floated
out and smiled at the small gathering.Bracus looked
positively murderous now, like he wanted to hex both of the ghosts.Lily Potter turned
toward the ill-favored boy as if she'd read his mind. "I'm
sure you know this, but you can't hex a ghost, Bracus Snape. Not
sure if they teach that in Hogwarts, but it should be obvious…"This set Bracus off
into a terrifying rant about wickedness and unnaturalness. Then
about the great education he'd received at Hogwarts where his dad –
"he's still alive, thank you very much" – taught Potions and
Duelling. Then Bracus started talking about what a strong Headmaster
they had at Hogwarts.That was enough to make
Lily stop the young man."Listen now, young
Snape. Let me tell you something about your father and your
headmaster," she said. "Snape was a classmate of mine in school
and I've known Albus Dumbledore longer than you have been alive. 
In the late 1970s, your father overheard part of a prophecy delivered
to Albus, then he couldn't wait to deliver it off to your precious
Dark Lord. Because it pointed to my son, Harry, here, Voldemort
finally convinced one of James' and my friends to join his ranks,
to betray us. Then Albus, having guessed at our friend's
situation, convinced us to make it easier for that rat of a human
being to betray us. Albus did all the research on our protections,
the secrecy wards we used, they should have been perfect, aside from
Albus picking the most easily destroyed variety. So, your precious
Dark Lord, your father, and your headmaster all conspired to kill my
son… but in his place, James and I perished and Harry lived. What
I wouldn't do to stick your head, Snape's and Albus' all in a
row…"Lily Potter was
obviously building up to an extraordinary argument. But James the
ghost got her calmed down—and just in time.Not many people knew
it, but ghosts could still perform some kinds of magic. Lily had
retained much of her offensive capabilities…and she had been a
tremendous dueller when young.Snape bit his own lip
until it bled and just decided to bide his time. He'd find
something worth doing. Some information to steal, something to
sabotage. He'd find a way to avenge all these doped up Death
Eaters, to avenge the smear on his father's name.





--------




Harry and the Magic FactoryChapter 6X-c-X-c-X-c-X"Sorry, everyone,"
Harry said. "Mother gets mad, very mad, when she thinks about the
past, particularly about certain people. So let's just move on to
exploring technology…"Of course, none of the
purebloods standing there had the slightest clue about what all of
this stuff was. But, for some odd reason, Luna Lovegood, seer of
Crumpled-Horn Snorkacks, seemed entranced by these devices."…so the
telly-vision shows wizarding photographs, but with sound, and for a
longer time, then?" she asked.Harry sort of nodded.Luna's eyes became
even more dreamy. "I think I'll like telly-vision, then. It
sounds like the Muggles have finally started using some kind of
magic."That got derisive
laughter from the three remaining Chosen. But Luna just looked on
and smiled."Here, Luna, I think
you might enjoy this. It's a nature program on odd insects from
Australia." Harry tugged the blonde girl into a seat. He
completed the tour with the other three in a few minutes. They were
clearly bored.Lily and James were
still following along behind. Lily was the current division head of
the Technologica. But right now she was staring daggers into Bracus
Snape.Harry then walked
everyone out of the doors of the building while he listened to their
grumbling. His parents kept up with Harry. They, too, were
grumbling…but about the quality of the Chosen. James went on
first, "I can't understand what's happened to Hogwarts. Is
this really the best they can do?"Harry was the one to
counter. "Not fair, dad. Hogwarts is the standard everyone
accepts. But we designed our school to meet our different needs: to
train witches and wizards, squibs and muggles – by the way, we need
different words for those classifications, I feel like a pureblood
bigot when I say them – and we'll even train friendly werewolves
and vampires and the like. It's not like the students are to
blame, exactly, it's more like the government and the school aren't
demanding enough. I mean, how silly is it not to start formal
training and education until someone reaches the age of eleven or
twelve…"The three lapsed back
into an old argument. Harry was not terribly interested in
criticizing a school he'd never seen, although he would often
comment about how unlikely it would be for a Hogwarts graduate to
manage a mastery by the age of twenty.Lily and James, after
all they'd endured after their graduation, had an abiding hatred of
the school now, particularly its headmaster.Lily began another one
of her standard diatribes. This one was loud enough that the Chosen
overheard most of it. "…he had the papers all drawn up, Harry,
you know that. For you and the Longbottom boy. He'd already
decided where he was going to place both of you. Already drawn up
modified versions of our wills, after he'd insisted he be allowed
to witness them. He was going to use our money, our family's
money, to help fund his wars. And even after Sirius and Remus got
you out of danger, he did that same exact thing to fifteen other war
orphans. Got guardianship, got control of the estates, and dumped
the children off with distant relatives. He's evil beyond mention,
so vile I'd like to summon up a demon just to create Albus
Dumbledore a personal sort of hell on earth…"Lily Evans, like many
redheaded women, had a tendency toward strong emotions and violent
longings.But James reined her in
this time. "…know, what we're doing is far worse than going
after him in the courts, Lily. He's off trying to look busy,
trying to figure out what happened to Voldemort, even attempting to
track down Voldemort's horcruxes – he wants to insert his own
name into this story. But he'll never be able to. Remus went and
collected the last horcrux four weeks ago after I managed to find the
traces toward it…"Harry stopped this part
of the argument. "Just leave it, mum and dad. The court of public
opinion is vicious enough to handle him. Let it do its work."The Chosen weren't
well educated, but they weren't slow. What exactly was it that
these three Potters, two ghosts and a slip of a boy, were plotting
against their Headmaster? Blaise was amused, Snape was looking for
an advantage, but Lisa Turpin was positively aghast. Dumbledore had
made her Head Girl. She owed the man a lot, probably even her
upcoming job in the Ministry of Magic.All three decided to
listen and learn more. Years at Hogwarts does teach people to become
effective spies, of course.So Harry walked them
across a mostly empty field and the Potter School loomed larger and
larger. From a distance it seemed rather a small building, but up
close it was most impressive. Harry gave each of the remaining
Chosen a brief walking tour of the building before stopping before a
heavy set of doors. He flicked out his hand and then walked in.The largest office any
of them had ever seen was before them. And it was already full. 
Neville, the Weasley twins, and all the other Chosen (save Luna) were
already enjoying cakes and tea. After Harry stepped into the office,
an Oompah popped into view holding Luna Lovegood's hand.Blaise looked around at
the room. It was clearly a place for someone very important. But
who? Who rated an office like this?"Please help yourself
to the snacks and then find a seat. I have to deal with Mr. McLaggen
first, then we can get down to business." This version of Harry
Potter was considerably different from the goofy, whimsical Harry
they'd all met earlier in the day.So the Chosen collected
food and quickly found seats.Harry turned to Cormac
McLaggen and frowned. "For the crime of attempted theft, any
privileges which you might have enjoyed here are suspended. In
addition, your memory will be bound so you can never speak of what
you've seen and heard here." Harry tapped the young man on his
chest and he promptly vanished."Now the Oompas can
take care of him…"Harry turned back to
the assemblage just before Sirius Black and Remus Lupin let
themselves into the office. Harry was glad of their presence."You're all here as
the first generation of outsiders to be introduced to the Potter
Estate. I have an offer for each one of you that we can discuss a
bit later. But, first, you all need some context to understand some
of what you've seen today. At present the Potter Estate has more
than twelve hundred persons classified as adults living within the
wards. We are more than self-sufficient and have operations on every
continent save Antarctica. We also run what is now the premier
school for magic in the world…"More than one of the
people gathered in front of Harry wanted to protest about Hogwarts."…I'll explain
and you can see for yourself. We have more than six hundred children
enrolled in our school. Some are war orphans who were basically
abandoned in your world; some are the children of Potter Estate
citizens; some are the children of Muggles who work for outside
Potter Estate companies…""Muggleborns,"
Blaise Zabini asked."No, Muggles. We
teach witches, wizards, squibs, and muggles here, Mr. Zabini. 
Students come to us as early as their fifth year…""What?" "That's
awful…it's far too young." "What can you teach a
five-year-old?" The Chosen were obviously concerned about
schooling starting at such a young age."…and you'd be
surprised the kinds of things they can learn. We begin teaching them
reading, mathematics, care of magical creatures, and introductory
sciences. We offer field trips to magical sites throughout Britain
and France. We also begin acculturation through story telling,
stories related to wizarding history and myths and heritage. We've
been doing this for nine years now and it's tremendously
successful…"The Chosen were sitting
still, for the most part, trying to divine the reason for them
hearing this story. Fred and George Weasley had already cottoned
onto what they thought it was, but it was mostly wishful thinking. 
Fortunately for them, and their desires, they guessed right."The school works on
a strict merit system. We assign a certain amount of content to each
class. Passing the class requires mastering the content, whether it
takes four months or sixteen months. Most classes require ten months
of study. Students generally spend about ten years preparing to pass
their basic competency. Some finish as early as fourteen; some as
late as seventeen. Passing basic competency is fairly challenging. 
For example, the requirements include: demonstrating competency in 4
foreign languages (up to 1 magical), equivalency of ten years study
of the English literature and language, 10 years of magical and human
history, 10 years of mathematics, practical and magical, 20
equivalent years and a minimum of six disciplines within human and
magical sciences, life training, including several years each of
economics and banking; household management and culinary skills; law
and politics; family heritage and traditions; and ethics. And for
magical students only, a minimum of four disciplines and 30
equivalency years of training. Every student also completes a basic
competency capstone project…"The Chosen were
goggling. The requirements were harder than the Mastery system
endorsed by the British Ministry of Magic. And this was just to
complete a basic competency."…at that point,
students are free to select exactly which subjects they wish to
continue further studies in. Most elect to pursue three or more
subjects. Then they do an additional two years of study to prepare
them to pursue Mastery-level work. To advance to the Masters-level,
each of these mastery qualification students completes any foreign
languages required for the subject, take the master's qualification
examination, and then submits a research proposal…."Blaise Zabini suspected
that this Potter person had to be lying. There was no way someone
could set up a school where everyone was forced to meet these
standards. They sounded impossibly high."…the Master's
program is completely self-directed. It requires only four things,
but none of them are simple to achieve: a full and complete
understanding of the field as a whole, original research into one or
more subsets or aspects of the field, completion of a final project
or projects, approved by a board of Masters, which is generally new
spells, new techniques or processes, or new interpretations of older
theories. Finally, each Master must swear an oath to continue the
development of the field in the future (research, teaching, skill
practice and usage, or the like)…"Blaise asked the
question everyone wanted to know. "Why would anyone sign up for
that kind of torture?"Harry smiled. "The
Potter Estate is vastly wealthy now—and for a good purpose. But
the only people who are allowed to participate in the wealth, to help
spend it and enjoy it, are the citizens here. The only way to become
a citizen of the Potter Estate is to have a Potter Mastery…"Lisa Turpin blinked a
couple of times, then scowled. "…so you have hundred year old
men here without masteries who don't qualify as adults?"Harry shook his head. 
"Yes and no. In principle, you're right, but not in actual
practice. Anyone we bring in to help on a project has three years of
provisional citizenship to work on their project, and work toward
their citizenship. Anyone who doesn't complete their mastery
within three years leaves, with their memory bound of their time
here. People who pass are granted citizenship and the right to move
between our world and any others they wish to…"Blaise leaned forward
again. "You explained why people need to become Masters, Potter,
in order to stay, but it still sounds like a lot of torture for a
little reward…"James Potter floated
forward. "My son has reestablished the family on a meritocratic
basis. All adult privileges hinge on the completion of a mastery:
voting for officeholders and for major laws and revisions to the
basic charter, use of a private vault at the Potter Trust, standing
for office, holding a Potter job, access to private (rather than
communal) housing, ability to teach in the Potter School, full
ability to access the Potter Estate Library (rather than the school
library), responsibility to serve on juries (which can levy against
personal freedoms and possessions, order the binding of someone's
magic, or their expulsion from the Potter Estate). We have to have
responsible people here. There's much to be done and not a lot of
hands, yet, to do the work."The room descended into
chaos. Some of the Chosen thought it sounded like a recipe for a
failed utopia, a dystopia; some thought it sounded wonderful."Hold up, folks,"
Harry said. "This is not a perfect society. We still have crime,
we still have bits and pieces of corruption. People try to bribe
others to get votes to serve on the Council and such. People have
tried to embezzle. But we've got a decent system in place and
committed, dedicated types as citizens. We've got wizards and
goblins doublechecking the financial statements. We've got
centaurs and werewolves and others coming in to help teach history to
our young to help check natural tendencies toward arrogance and
thoughts of supremacy. We've got Muggles intermingling with us. 
We're the opposite of a dying, decaying society. We're just
starting out and we've got a plan for the future…but that's
something we'll discuss a bit later, I think."George and Fred Weasley
decided it was their turn to ask a question. "So, Mister Potter,"
one of them started."…what exactly are
we doing here?""Going to give us a
chance to work here…""…or become
citizens?"Harry smiled at the
twins. "You got it in one. As of today, we're going to begin
drawing a bit closer to the traditional wizarding world in Britain
and other nations. You all have been invited here to see some of the
things we work on. If you'd like, I will arrange an apprenticeship
for each of you and three years of provisional citizenship so that
you can complete a Master's if you'd like. We won't even force
you to take the basic proficiency examinations, which are rather
challenging…"That was enough to push
their buttons again. Nearly everyone of the Chosen demanded to be
able to take the basic proficiency testing. If Potter's fourteen
and fifteen year olds could do it, then why couldn't they do it
when they were sixteen and older?Bracus Snape was
staying quiet. He actually knew what it took to become a Master
under the British system. And he wasn't sure if even his father
could manage to secure a Mastery here. Severus had been a Master for
years, but he hadn't needed to actually create new potions to do
it. And his father owned a research company, in addition to his work
teaching at Hogwarts, but he had never actually created a new potion
from whole cloth before. Wolfsbane was based on dozens of years of
semi-failed work from others. If the researchers who lived in this
'Magic Factory' were this smart, Bracus needed to figure out how
and why. He needed to give his people, the people he cared about, an
advantage over these traitors.Harry smiled. The
basic proficiency examinations would instill some humility in these
people, then they could begin their work in their departments and on
their masteries. Looking around, Harry guessed that Fred and George
would pass. Neville was a possibility in Magical Botany. Luna
Lovegood could probably take on a couple of subjects and do well. 
But Harry had his doubts about the others. And that Colin Creevey
was particularly creepy, but it was possible he could be good with a
camera – assuming he could keep his clothes on."For those that stay
on, we'll begin the examination tomorrow. It lasts for three solid
days, so be ready."Susan Bones was looking
torn and thoughtful. She was very much interested in working with
that Necromantics department, but she wanted to know what kind of
projects she would have to work on to achieve a Mastery here. So she
asked."What are the options
for Mastery? And which one are you working on?"Harry smiled at the
second part of the question. But he felt glad to answer the first
half."Well, we're always
working to expand the options so we don't leave out any worthwhile
field. As of today, we have options in Potions, Pranks, Defense,
Duelling and Offensive Magics, Warding and Runic Magics,
Transfiguration, Charms, Healing, Spell Development, Arcane Magics
like Divination, Necromancy, Soul Magics, and Mind Magics. There's
Magical Zoology, Magical Botany, Ancient and Magical Tongues,
Practical Languages, Politics and Law, the Human Sciences such as
Astronomy, Chemistry, Physics, Engineering, Biology and Physiology,
Geological Sciences, Practical and Magical Mathematics, Business and
Economics, Human History, Magical History, and Technology."The Chosen were trying
to filter through the list. "But don't worry, I have some
documentation I can give you if you're genuinely interested. It
covers all of the Masteries and their required subject matter."Fenecule Moody was
rather disturbed by what he'd heard. "Why are there Muggle
subjects allowed for Mastery?""Because witches and
wizards need to know Muggle subjects too. And Muggles need to know
magical subjects. Our first Master of Magical History was a Muggle
actually. So be careful of yourself, young Moody."This causes more
grumbling. He realized that these Hogwarts students wouldn't even
know Muggleborn students much any more, because the Potter School
went and found most of the Muggleborn by age five."Hold up. How many
of you even know a Muggleborn student, aside from Colin Creevey or
his younger brother?"Colin looked impressed
that Harry knew that much.But no one else raised
their hands. "See. Your world isn't working the right way any
more. We identify all the Muggleborn from accidental magic and then
outreach to them way before Hogwarts would think to. We teach magic
right next to muggle subjects. And we allow nonmagical siblings to
attend, especially through our sister school in the nonmagical world.
 And we invite parents to visit. I don't know why we missed Colin
and his brother, but we don't miss many of the Muggleborn any
more…"The grumbling
intensified. But Harry had other things to show them. So he ushered
them out of the school office and back into the hallways. On their
quick trip outside, Harry introduced them to Hermione Granger, Draco
Malfoy ("one of my best friends, actually, once you get past his
snooty early years" which provided everyone a laugh), and Justin
Finch-Fletchley. Then he waved to a number of teachers moving
around, including Instructor Alastor Moody.Harry was opening a
portal so that all of them could return to the grounds of the Potter
Estate when Luna Lovegood reminded everyone, "Harry here has not
explained what mastery subjects he's studying."Harry smiled again and
started pushing people through the portal. "When we arrive, we
have a bit of time. If you'd like a story, perhaps I can share
that one…"





--------




Harry and the Magic FactoryA/N: Back for one more
good Roald Dahl-style prank, then onto some gruesome-style
seriousness. Voldemort and his horcruxes coming up! Also, if you're
trying to imagine Harry as one of the movie-version Willy Wonka's,
think Gene Wilder not Johnny Depp. Enjoy!Chapter 7X-c-X-c-X-c-XThe Chosen emerged in
front of a rather small, ramshackle building. The massive Potter
Manor was off in the distance, so why in the world were they looking
at this unimpressive building."This, ladies and
gentlemen, is the Magic Factory." Harry was smiling broadly now. 
He was almost back to his whimsical self."What about your
Masteries, Potter, what are you working on?" The words came,
almost verbatim, from several people. Lily Potter, in all her
ghostly splendor, was smiling."Well," Harry
started, "I'm currently working on my Technology mastery in
addition to three fields within the Human Sciences, chemistry,
physics, and engineering…"Blaise Zabini was very
unimpressed by this. "You're a wizard of some sort, although I
haven't seen your wand, so why aren't you working in a magical
field…"Now Sirius Black and
Remus Lupin were also smiling."Let me tell you
something of my early life, then we can get back to your questions
about Masteries, alright?"The Chosen stood in a
loose circle around him and waited."The night Voldemort
cast the Killing Curse at me, it obviously didn't work correctly. 
He lost his body, but did not die. But I was the one left with a
bizarre number of aftereffects. I had the memories inside my head,
even from a young age, of other people. I started talking very early
on, but in complete sentences, not just baby pitter patter. I've
had conscious control of my magic from the age of four and a half. 
I've found dozens of bizarre and very rare talents and gifts
emerging inside me, many more than were ever found in the Potter
bloodline. Whatever happened because of that Killing Curse, it did a
lot of strange things to me…"Blaise and Bracus were
the most skeptical of the Chosen. But the others were having a tough
time buying this story, too. Harry didn't stop talking, though."…it wasn't until
after I turned six that me, Sirius, Remus, and a few others started
trying to figure out what had happened, why had it gone wrong. We
never did figure out if Voldemort miscast it, but we did discover
some of the functions of the misnamed Killing Curse…"This broke the Chosen. 
"Misnamed?" "It takes lives, doesn't it…" "Arrogant
prat thinks he knows everything…""…it actually does
several things prior to ending someone's life. It creates a
complete copy of a person's memories, it seizes a person's
magical gifts, and then steals the entirety of a person's magic. 
That act of ripping out a person's magic is enough to kill a
wizard. The portion about copying magical memories kills Muggles, we
think. During a successful casting, all of that power and
information is returned to the caster's wand. Originally, this
curse was Babylonian, we think, but the counter-curse to access the
stored magic and memories has been lost to time. It was a Lord's
curse meant to destroy his misbehaving vassals and harvest their
magic and gifts, nasty stuff. But the 'Killing Curse'
malfunctioned that night and I received all of that magic, all those
gifts, and all those memories. I can say without a doubt that
Voldemort personally used Avada Kedavra on 143 witches and wizards in
his lifetime, plus three vampires, seven werewolves, fourteen
goblins, and assorted other creatures; and I have perfect recall over
each one of their lives. One of those vampires had been around since
the middle 800s. Rather disturbing, actually, having all that
knowledge, particularly as I've had to block out my own moment of
conception from my parents' memories…"Luna Lovegood was the
only one to laugh at Harry's disturbing little joke. But she
honestly thought it was funny."…all that
knowledge has been swirling around inside me for a long time. It
also gave me early and nearly complete control over my magic. I've
never actually been able to use my wand, of course, I blame that on
the vampires…""Are you a vampire? 
Or a werewolf?" Harry didn't place the soft voice that asked the
terrified question.Harry shook his head. 
"No, I do not transform on full moons nor do I drink blood. I
simply have an intuitive understanding of a vampire's wandless
magic…"This time Bracus was up
to his old tricks. "That's shite, Potter. Pull out your wand
and let's see if anything you've told us is true…"This had Lily, James,
Sirius, and Remus all in a very happy mood."Fine, let's just
prove what I am, then. Bracus, you stand over there. Everyone else
stand back five meters or so." After everyone moved into place,
Harry turned to face his younger opponent. "All right. I will
defend and you will attack. Say five minutes or until you can
incapacitate me. All curses are allowed, but do remember if you
fling them, I might just bounce them back at you."With that, Bracus Snape
started with a spectacle. "Crucio." The orange arc of light
looked like it would hit Harry in the middle of his chest. But then
it suddenly arced downward and it discharged, harmlessly, into the
ground.Bracus tried again and
again with deadly curses: cutting curses, dismemberment curses, pain
curses, burning curses, freezing curses, permanent insanity curses,
disembowelment curses, blasting curses. Really, Bracus Snape had an
impressive knowledge of borderline and Dark Arts curses. But not a
single one hit Harry Potter. In fact, when Bracus had nearly given
up and cast a tickling charm, the Chosen saw the charm approach
Harry, curve around his body, and then whip back toward Bracus Snape.
 In his excessive laughter, Bracus dropped his own wand.James Potter was
clapping, although the sound wasn't audible. "And that, ladies
and gentlemen, is the nonverbal, wandless work for which my son
received his mastery in defense. His discoveries are now standard
fare in our training. Redirection, it's called. You can use it
very well in one-on-one situations. It is less applicable in large
group battle, of course, because then you wouldn't want redirected
curses slamming into an ally. But it's dead useful stuff. 
Redirect to the ground. Redirect back to the caster. Redirect and
intensify, good for smashing into solid objects or even people during
the middle of a duel. Redirect physical attacks, like flying objects
or muggle weapons such as firearms…"The ghost was obviously
proud of his son. The Chosen were somewhat humbled to see such a
violent display from Snape answered without a word or a wand. A
couple of them realized that they wouldn't be able to lay a single
spell on this Harry Potter.Remus was also smiling
at the scene. "No one had defeated Harry here in a duel since he
came up with these defensive spells. Sure, he trains them to other
people, but he's also developed new offensive magics that work
around deflection. He got his Duelling and Offensive Magic mastery
for sharing a couple of them, but I know he's holding back…""So, you're an
adult then," Colin Creevey asked. He'd only seen the newspaper
room – and been seen, in return, in less than stellar circumstances
– but already he was acting like a newspaperman."Yes, I earned my
first Mastery early in life…""First mastery? The
ghost and that man mentioned you had two. But how many do you really
have, Potter?" This was from Blaise Zabini."Nineteen."The Chosen couldn't
say anything for a few seconds. Then a lot of "preposterous" and
"nonsense" echoed in the outside air.Lily Potter smiled as
she floated around. "The first was for Spell Creation for
unraveling major parts of the Avada Kedavra curse. Ancient and
Magical Tongues, for the development of a methodology to teach
Parseltongue to non-gifted speakers. Magical Botany, growth spells
to help save dying varieties of magical trees. Charms, for research
into sacrificial charms and how they function. Transfiguration,
development of new information on Animagi, plus those Animagery
Toffees to aid in animagus training. Potions, for work leading to
the development of the Gift Potion. Politics and Law, establishment
of the Potter Council. Banking and Economics, for the establishment
of the Potter Trust…"Lily laid out the other
Masteries. A few of the Chosen seemed to want to believe."He had two masteries
in warding? And another two in arcane magics…" The questions
started slowly and none of them were directed toward Harry. He just
rolled his eyes. He looked small for his age, it was true, but he
had thousands of years of memories inside his head. He also knew
more about magic than any of the Chosen would ever be able to fathom."Well, sorry to break
this party up, but we're actually here to tour the Magic Factory…""What is this dingy
little building," Bracus Snape asked."This is where my
parents hid from Voldemort, under supposedly perfect secrecy spells,
the night he killed them. He had a traitor help him, of course, to
locate the cottage at Godric's Hollow. But we call this the Magic
Factory now. It's the center for planning all that we do…"Harry had the group
come inside in a single file line. The first room they entered was
filled with loose-leaf books. Harry picked one up. "This is the
Room of Requirement. Whenever a citizen here decides that something
needs to be researched or created, they come and log it in one of
these books. Then others can claim the projects or not. This book
is about improvement to healing." Harry opened it and started to
summarize. "Someone wants a better healing potion, something that
reduces pain while it heals burns or bruises. Someone else has
requested an improved Skele-Gro. Another person wants to improve the
regrowth of limbs process…""You can't regrow
limbs," Lisa Turpin said.Harry shook his head. 
"No, you can't regrow limbs. We do it fairly well over
here, but it could definitely be improved…."Other of the Chosen
pulled different volumes off the shelves. There were books for Law,
Banking, Necromancy, Languages, Schooling, Governance, the Potter
Estate, and hundreds of other topics. "Every citizen can
contribute – or claim a topic as a research project. Some of them
get shot down by the Council as impractical and the others wait their
turn for someone to take an interest in them… I'd look
carefully, as you may be scouring these books for ideas should you
decide to accept an apprenticeship here. You'd only have a couple
of years to find and complete a project for your Mastery."Harry walked over to a
small table against the wall and picked up the book called
"Bizarreness and Oddities." It was generally agreed that the
only things that could go in here were impossibilities. Many of
which Harry had some arcane way of knowing about. He opened the book
to look at new entries. "…someone wants to learn four dialects
of Egyptian to improve their cursebreaking, I have about that many, I
think…someone needs information on how vampires were treated during
the 12th, 13th, and 14th centuries,
check…someone needs guidance on constructing a time turner, I know
all about them, but that I'm not about to share, way too dangerous,
denied…"Harry gave everyone
quite some time to examine the books. Fred and George were clutching
the thick Pranks volume with reverence. Blaise was smiling
disdainfully as he paged through the volume on Governance. Many of
the others were completely enthralled by the kinds of research
requested and required by other citizens of the Potter Estate.When it looked like
people were getting ready to move on, aside from Fred and George,
Harry started pushing them upstairs. "Downstairs was the
short-range stuff, the stuff the Magic Factory might dream up in the
next year or three. Up here, this is the long range stuff, the plans
we have for the next hundred years…"More than one of the
Chosen was rolling his eyes. Who actually planned one hundred years
in the future?The answer, of course,
was someone who had thousands of years worth of memories in his head."…by the way,
everything in here is protected by substantial memory protections. 
You can't speak of the things you see or hear, nor can anyone carry
any of these materials out…save for some specially enchanted note
paper. So keep your fingers to yourself. We've had a number of
students get very tempted by something they saw up here…"That warning and
prohibition only served to give a couple of people ideas."Welcome to the
Planning Room, everyone. Here's where we put it together, where we
make all the decisions about what land to buy, and where, and what
businesses to buy or start. We're not in business just for
ourselves, of course, no. We have an agenda of sorts. Within
seventy-five years, we will safely and completely reveal the
existence of magic back to the Muggles…"The shouting was
immediate. After all, most of the people in the room were pureblood
witches and wizards. And it didn't stop for a long time. But
Bracus Snape, Blaise Zabini, and a few others had the chance to
purloin different items of interest. Snape got his hands on a small
copy of something called "The One Hundred Year Plan." Blaise
picked up a number of assorted documents that detailed the Potter
Estate holdings throughout the world."That's exactly the
reason I wanted to tell you all about our plans before we really
started talking about our apprenticeship program. If you can't
support our magic-muggle integration, then you won't enjoy your
time here. You will have to survive in the nonmagical world as part
of your training, I assure you. You will have to interact with our
nonmagical liaisons throughout the world. Be very sure about the
opportunity before you decide to accept or reject it…"Harry led them through
the other rooms of the Magic Factory. It really didn't look like
the nerve center of a multi-billion galleon family enterprise, but it
was. Nothing was lavish or expensive inside it, but still everything
screamed pure economic power. Colin, the group's sole muggleborn,
understood some of the names he saw on charts on the walls. British
Petroleum, Citigroup, Goldman Sachs, Hawthorne Organic Foods, Federal
Express, General Electric, Microsoft, Amgen, Pfizer, Sony. This
Harry Potter owned significant percentages of them—or owned them
outright, it seemed."That was the
Counting Room. We keep accurate tallies of how much wealth we
control in there. And this is our Alliance Room. We have complete
records of every one of our allies, wizard, squib, muggle; vampire,
werewolf, goblin, every kind…. And this last room is the
Information Room. We don't have much going on in here yet, but
this will be where all of our public responses are planned. There
will be some now that the Chosen have visited. There will be more
once we start revealing bits of pieces of magic to the Muggles. Old
texts about magic will be discovered by scholars; rare magical
animals will be carefully presented to appropriate folks;
impossible-to-heal wounds will be tended to by our healers. It will
all be carefully monitored and controlled from in here…"Many of the pureblood
Chosen were either completely upset or rather impressed. It sounded
like Potter was planning to take over the world slowly, but without a
Dark Lord's penchant for killing. And without a pureblooded
ideology. But how would he make it work? What was the glue?"…and then when we
start approaching governments and the like, giving them forewarning. 
That will have to be handled here, too."Harry began leading
them back downstairs. He ignored most of the questions. "Why work
with muggles at all?" "What is this Hundred Year Plan?" "How
will you accomplish any of this?" "What is it you actually
believe in?"Harry was humming a bit
to himself. He wondered which of the would-be thieves would cross
the wards first. He also wondered if any of the others would be dumb
enough to follow along outside.Blaise felt the brush
of the magical wards on his skin. They weren't unobtrusive like
when he'd walked inside the building. No, this time they felt a
bit angry. So he shouldn't have been surprised when he set foot
outside the 'Magic Factory' and promptly found his entire body
encased in something light, airy, and entirely immovable. He could
still see and breathe, but he felt like he'd just been encased in a
rather large block of cheese. His hands were frozen in position near
his body. His legs were encased to the point where he couldn't
move them at all.Blaise felt one other
person exit the building behind him. Then it felt like everyone
stopped completed. He heard papers and books dropping to the floor. 
Blaise groaned to himself. The wards had caught him for whatever
he'd attempted to steal just now. Shit. Shit. Sloppy and stupid
spying job, that. Blaise knew he deserved whatever punishment he was
about to receive.Harry was amused. 
There had been at least five would-be thieves from the motions inside
the Magic Factory. He'd have an Oompah be sure to restore
everything to its proper place later."See what I said
about the wards? Lovely things, very possessive. I created this set
personally. Usually it's only schoolchildren on a dare who even
try this, because this solid foam isn't terribly comfortable. It
can't be removed until it sets completely, takes hours actually. 
And it gets very itchy. Our friend here is going to have a massive,
nasty full body rash for at least a week after he gets out. Oh well.
 I hope everyone else has left behind whatever mementos they were
planning to steal? Very well." Harry turned to the solid orange
block of Blaise and slapped a small portkey on it. "He'll have
his memory bound, of course, and be sent back to where he came from. 
So now, everyone else out."Harry watched and
waited. But no one else triggered the wards. Interesting.Harry pointed everyone
in the direction of their next visit and then watched as small groups
seemed to form up to discuss things. But one small group of two
identical individuals didn't move. They waited until it was just
them and Harry. Even Lily, Remus, Sirius, and James had gone ahead."So, you wanted a
word, gentlemen?"Twin number one nodded
while the other one started to talk. "We both want more than
anything to work in your Potions and Pranks. But our academic
skills…" These jokesters were deadly serious now."…are nowhere near
the level of these others. Our Potions grades in school were
actually abysmal…""…even though we do
know our stuff…"Harry smiled and
stopped them. Then he started walking slowly toward the next
building. "I do not take the grades from a school as poor as
Hogwarts seriously. That man Snape seems to be a positive menace,
actually…""Have you been out…""…and seen our
world?"Harry nodded. "Many
times, but never as I look today. I've been an animagus for a long
time and I'm pretty good with concealment spells of various kinds. 
So, I've met this Severus Snape. I've met all of your teachers. 
McGonagall could probably manage a Transfiguration mastery here and
Flitwick would be a lock for Charms and perhaps, with some training,
Duelling. Sprout has done some good things in Magical Botany, but I
wouldn't bet money on her ability to earn a mastery here. And the
rest wouldn't stand a chance, save Dumbledore himself." Harry
just smiled to himself here. "Plus, you've both taken other
tests you might not have recognized as tests…and you've done
remarkably well on them."Fred and George just
stared at each other in confusion."Do either of you
remember receiving small pamphlets on pranking when you were younger?
 From the bottoms of the bags you brought back from Zonko's? We
put items like that all throughout the world, sometimes bookmarks
inside a thick transfiguration book. Or we'd publish an article on
necromancy that was right save for one assumption buried inside it. 
Tests of all sorts. I've actually been wanting to have this
apprenticeship program start for years, so we've been testing for
years for every subject. But we've only just now finished up
another important project that precluded us from revealing ourselves
to the wizarding public in this way…"Fred and George were
lost, save for the comment that they'd already passed tests of
various kinds…"Tell us more, oh
master…""…who gives us
tests in the bottom of pranking bags."Harry's smile grew
large and prominent. "I figured you two would be successful. 
You're also the only two who've even bothered to ask why you were
selected to come here…of course, you didn't say it in so many
words, but that's really what you wanted to find out." Fred
nodded a bit. George was smirking at his brother. "There were
many tests for potions and pranks. But the one you might remember
had the partial ingredients for a potion to turn someone's skin
bright, vibrant pink. You tried it a number of times before you
realized there had been a 'misprint' in the instructions. Then
you stole some powdered mole feet from your mother and, viola, you
had a color changing potion. But, this was your genius in the prank,
you administered only small doses to your older brother. And it was
only after a week's worth of pranking that someone other than you
noticed. And, because you'd spent so long administering the potion
to him, it took a week for the effect to wear off. Truly wonderful
work…"Fred and George were
smiling now. They remembered that little booklet fondly. And they'd
discovered numerous 'misprints' inside it. But, as it seemed,
these misprints were actually the tests. They both felt better now. 
That was the kind of test they could both handle.Harry was glad that
these two were the first. Harry had mentally placed good money on
these two doing very well with their tests and their apprenticeships.
 These two, if properly paired up, would both become Masters.Harry's eyes flicked
toward the small stone pavilion ahead of him. The other remaining
Chosen were already fanned out around it, trying to understand it. 
It had to signs or explanations. Every schoolchild and citizen knew
what this place was."This is the War
Memorial," Harry said in a crisp, clear voice. "This honors
those who fought and fell in the War with Tom Riddle."Bracus Snape was very
interested now. He'd not gotten his hands on the Gift Potion or
anything from that 'Magic Factory' but the stuff in here could be
the most valuable of all. Perhaps the explanation of what had
happened that night was in there, not whatever lies Harry Potter had
attempted to tell.Of course, Bracus Snape
didn't learn his lessons well or easily. So his next lesson would
be quite violent and painful. But he didn't know that yet."Inside this pavilion
are several artifacts from Tom Riddle. Many of them were originally
owned by the Founders of Hogwarts. Tom Riddle was particularly
obsessed with them, like a locket owned by Salazar Slytherin or a cup
owned by Helga Hufflepuff. But others were just simple items: a
diary he owned in school, for example…"Luna Lovegood was the
only Chosen actually looking closely at everything she saw. She
appeared distracted most of the time, but she had a nice head on her
shoulders. Neville rubbed her back when she noticed something odd on
the floor of the pavilion."Why exactly is there
a rat in a cage on the floor of the pavilion?""Oh, him. He is an
animagus who betrayed me and my parents years ago in the service of
this Tom Riddle person. He's currently in a healing coma, and has
been for years, because of the effects of that night my parents died.
 But he'd not that interesting when you compare him to the other
contents."Harry pointed a finger
toward a large glass vessel. Inside was swirling a very angry
looking gray-black mist."That, ladies and
gentlemen, is the disembodied soul of one Tom Riddle…"





--------




Harry and the Magic FactoryChapter 8X-c-X-c-X-c-XEveryone outside the
War Memorial, save for Harry, his parents, and his friends, began
nearly rioting. Most in fear, one in abject desire.The most cogent
question Harry heard was, "If you defeated him, why is Voldemort
still swirling around in that jar?"Harry took only that
question. "You're correct. I defeated him as an infant, but I
did not kill him. Voldemort, as you call him, had delved a bit into
vampiric magics in a mistaken bid to capture immortality. There is,
of course, no such thing, not even with a vampire's soul magics. 
But it makes him difficult to remove permanently…"The story took a few
minutes to complete, but the gist was simple. The soul magics would
need to be destroyed or reunited with Voldemort's spirit before the
evil being could be finally destroyed."…he stole the
knowledge of the worst of the vampiric soul magics to keep himself
alive, but as he wasn't undead like vampires, he drove himself more
and more insane with each time he used that knowledge. Fortunately,
I know enough old vampires that we should have the full answer soon…"The Chosen were trained
on the swirling mist in the glass jar. "Is that what a soul really
looks like?" "Does everyone have such a dirty-looking one?" 
"How does anyone actually know that it can't get out?" "Are
they mad? Keeping that nasty piece of thing around in the open?""…and the wards
here will keep him trapped inside the War Memorial until we can
translate the vampiric knowledge into something I or another human
can use. Because that's surely what Riddle has done, he was
inspired by vampires, but these devices are now entirely a design of
his own making. I've got most every researcher at Potter
Necromantics working on this problem right now… I do have to say
that it's been a long time in coming, but we're all finally about
to be free from this Tom Riddle…"Harry was smiling at
the end of his little spiel, one he delivered to every new group of
students who'd passed their basic proficiencies. But these Chosen
looked decidedly the worse for wear. Some were red-faced and angry,
some were green enough to be looking ill, and that odd Bracus Snape
looked perfectly calm and undisturbed. Harry didn't like what he
saw in this Snape. He was obviously up to something. But, if Snape
thought to steal the jar of Voldemort, he'd be sorely surprised. 
The problem was that Harry wasn't really sure how to complete the
soul-magics ritual without destroying any intermediary humans
involved. That was the final part he was researching, actually, how
to destroy a dangerous, unfettered soul without harming anyone it may
have bonded to.Harry eyed Bracus one
more time before returning to look at the other Chosen."Now, before we move
into the world of the prosaic, does anyone have any questions?"Silly question. 
Everyone did. Some went back to getting a sample of the Gift Potion
– "No, it has to be earned. Only Potter Estate employees, full
citizens at that, may use it." – or permission to use Animagery
Toffees – "still not perfected, but getting closer."Colin Creevey, would-be
reporter, asked his question five different ways. But it boiled down
to: "Did you steal your idea from the American company Wal-Mart?"
 Colin loved traveling. He particularly loved traveling in order to
go shopping. A place like Wal-Mart was confusing and entertaining at
the same time."Perhaps the bit on
lower than average prices came from Wal-Mart," Harry said. "But
I think Sirius Black, who came up with the idea before my second
birthday, was more inspired by an American company called Trader
Joe's. Small stores, eclectic, delicious merchandise. Constantly
changing out products that don't taste right or that don't excite
our customers. Employees with a lot of personality, not unlike the
Oompahs who work in the Potter Emporiums. But we only use the
Emporiums in England and France. We handle sales of our products in
other countries differently…"Lisa Turpin asked
detailed, multipart questions that all revolved around the Potter
School. In short, they boiled down to: "How do I get a job there?""And that, Ms.
Turpin, is quite simple. Complete your mastery and you will be
qualified to teach your subject at the Potter School…"Fenecule Moody, who had
said next to nothing interesting the whole day and who had only
proved interesting when he fell or was pushed into a vat of
chocolate, asked a half dozen questions about his great-uncle,
Alastor Moody. Fenecule had missed their visit to the Potter School.Harry's answer was,
"Talk to your great uncle if you want to know what he's like."Susan Bones had peeled
away from the main group, as far from the memorial as she could go,
and talked with the two ghosts. She was interested to know if they'd
ever met her parents, who'd been killed in the war with Voldemort,
but not by Voldemort himself.As Lily Potter had met
Diogenes Bones, Susan's father, the pair spent a good deal of time
talking.Sirius Black and Remus
Lupin had been cornered by the Weasley Twins. The Weasleys had a
thousand and one different pranks ideas, many of which had already
been attempted by the remaining Hogwarts Marauders. Of course, the
conversation nearly ended when the Weasleys started hyperventilating
in the presence of two known Marauders, Padfoot and Moony.Harry had the rest of
the Chosen circled around him. The rest, save one.Bracus Snape had
watched the groups forming up to ask questions. He had seemed to
circle near one group, then moved toward another. But the entire
time he was examining this pavilion and this glass jar holding the
Dark Lord's spirit. Bracus would have felt dubious about believing
anything this Potter had said, but Bracus could feel the anger and
hatred pouring out of the jar. It was a supremely powerful, dark
wizard located in there.Bracus examined the
pavilion closely. He also fingered the emergency portkey that Albus
Dumbledore had supplied to him. No one exactly trusted this whole
Chosen situation, particularly not when Snapes were visiting Potters.
 No, Severus had insisted upon at least one portkey.So, Bracus had that. 
But this pavilion was something else. He didn't have mage sight or
anything like it, but he could feel the humming of the power in the
wards guarding over the pavilion. With that kind of power, there was
probably a layering of them. Common ones plus whatever that crazy
Potter had thought up. Him and all his masteries.Bracus bent down and
picked up a pebble from the ground. He quickly tossed it toward the
pavilion. The wards didn't stop it from entering.What about living
things? Maybe the wards only dealt with the living? Or maybe they
only dealt with wizards. Bracus walked over toward the entrance to
the pavilion. Then he turned around and pretended to be interested
in the conversations going on near him. But he kept backing away
from the other, moving toward the entrance. He was listening for the
wards to change, for them to increase in intensity. He'd seen what
had happened to Blaise with a careless theft – Bracus, of course,
conveniently forgot that he'd intended to steal as well – and was
taking every reasonable precaution. He'd slowly work his way
inside, take that jar, then use the portkey. It was strong enough,
Dumbledore had said, to burst through any wards.While Bracus was
scouting out his quarry, Harry was attempting to explain some of the
details of the apprenticeship to interested listeners."It lasts three
years. Every participant is given provisional citizenship here and
is allowed to work for one of the Potter Estate companies as an
apprentice. It's a paid position and housing is also covered. 
You'll spend maybe thirty hours a week at your employer. The rest
of the time will be spent in playing catch up so you can complete
your mastery within three years. It's mostly self-directed, as our
students here are used to that, but since you lot aren't, you'll
also have an apprenticeship director you'll meet with once weekly. 
We don't want anyone getting stumped or frustrated, of course. So,
you'll work, study, and enjoy what we have to offer here. I'll
make sure everyone has the outline of the program before you leave. 
Of course, we will be running the basic proficiency testing starting
tomorrow for those that are curious, but it's not required. Each
of you have already qualified for other reasons." And Harry added
to himself, 'and god help us if we picked wrong.' Personally,
Harry had advocated a smaller group of Chosen, maybe five in total,
but the Council had insisted that the six best of the Hogwarts
students be added to those chosen by the special testing Harry had
arranged. "Those that want to start the program will turn up on
January 1 next year ready to go. You probably won't get the chance
to leave the wards for a year or so, then only for brief visits. 
You've all likely got a lot of ground to make up with your
studies…"This statement,
predictably, started another 'defense of Hogwarts' session. It
ended when Harry smiled and said, "We'll just see what the basic
proficiency testing reveals, won't we?" All of the remaining
Chosen were now obligated, out of pride, to take the tests.That was also the same
instant when Harry felt the wards around the pavilion trigger. He
pivoted and saw that Bracus Snape was now clutching the soul jar to
his chest. Harry started to shout out a half dozen warnings when the
swirling soul inside the jar just seemed to shrink and disappear. 
Then Bracus dropped the jar to the ground. It shattered. Everyone,
save Harry, looked at the glass on the ground. Harry was looking at
Bracus.'Shit,' was all
Harry could think. The soul jar had been touched by someone. It had
released its contents. Harry watched in mounting frustration as
Bracus Snape's black greasy-looking hair seemed to transmute into
straight brown hair. His face began to change shape, too. His nose
reduced in its prominence. His skin conditions seemed to clear up,
too. Bracus' eyes flickered and wavered in their color before
finally converting. The one known as Bracus Snape was now in full
possession by Tom Riddle. This was a young looking Riddle, the
attractive, seductive young man who had charmed an entire generation
of Hogwarts students. He appeared to be the man before he'd begun
his descent into Darkness and madness.'Can't anyone
understand why it's a bad thing to free a genie? Or the soul of a
Dark Lord?' Harry was already recalling and practicing mentally
the procedures that would have to follow. This wasn't a good
situation at all.The reborn Tom Riddle
stepped over to where his soul jar had rested. He examined the
horcruxes laid out as trophies of war. All of them were present. He
was angered and impressed at the same time that all his
counterdefenses had been subverted. He'd just have to reclaim
these, make some additional ones, and then hide them all better. Tom
had learned a few things about secrecy charms while confined in that
damned bottle.Then he saw his yew
wand resting on a small stand. He picked up his wand, flicked it a
few times, and turned to the horrified people standing in front of
him."If you wish to save
your pathetic lives, leave now. I am Lord Voldemort and I have had
fifteen years to plot and plan… I have overheard everything all
you simpering morons have said. I know what you've done to my
Death Eaters, neutering them, making them impotent. But I will
reverse it or I will kill them. My followers are always my
followers."Voldemort knelt down
and touched the small cage holding the comatose animagus Peter
Pettigrew. "My only faithful subject. The only one who didn't
betray me…" Voldemort attempted to free the small rat, but
couldn't.So he stood up again,
shouted "You will be free to join with me again," and leveled his
wand at the cage.Harry was glad of only
one thing at this moment. The wards had come fully into force. 
Voldemort would be ripped free from his human host if he tried to
walk out or leave by other magical means. This Voldemort would not
be getting out. But it wasn't just that. Harry had to figure out
how to save the life of one who didn't deserve it. Bracus Snape,
the fool, was the one Harry was worried about now. This level of
possession, where physical transformation occurred in the host, was
almost always deadly when it was ended. The host couldn't survive
in the absence of its new master…"Dominus Vocat,"
Tom Riddle shouted as he pointed his wand at Peter Pettigrew's
cage.





--------




Harry and the Magic FactoryChapter 9A/N: Reviewers are
about split on Bracus Snape. Some think he deserves all he gets. 
Others didn't expect him to be as stupid as he is. I've never
been a fan of Snape (unlike some fanfic writers who pair him up with
Harry or attempt to redeem him some way). Part of what happens to
Bracus is revealed in this chapter, but the rest won't be until
Harry has to confront a raging mad Severus Snape several chapters in
the future. I'm sure you'll all enjoy that confrontation, too.X-c-X-c-X-c-XAt Tom Riddle's
shouted incantation, nothing – surprisingly – happened. He
shouted out "Dominus Vocat" again. And nothing, again, happened.If it had worked, the
"Lord's Calling" would have woken, freed, and set to rights any
of his marked followers. It was an old, very powerful spell for a
Lord with vassals. It also took very little power to cast, so Tom
Riddle was sure that his host's body must be capable of doing it.What, then, was wrong?Tom Riddle wasn't in
much of an analytic mood. He was in a rage, actually. Fifteen plus
years trapped in a jar. Watching as his horcruxes were found and
brought near him. Watching as his enemies plotted his final
destruction. Yes, Tom Riddle was in a rage. But he wanted to
understand why he was powerless now.Why wasn't his wand
functioning. He dropped it to the ground, then searched his host's
clothing. He found another wand. He quickly and successfully cast a
"Lumos" with the new wand before trying a "Dominus Vocat"
again."It won't work,
Tom," Harry said. "You need to use the wand you marked them
with…"Tom Riddle looked up. 
He was annoyed at the disturbance. He was annoyed that this young
child was right.He lifted up the wand
and said "Avada Kedavra."The jet of green light
flew from the wand. But when it struck the wards, it got stuck. 
Instead of a stream, it squished up so that it was an odd-looking
ball of green energy. It hadn't dissipated, but it also couldn't
move forward.Voldemort cast a
"Crucio" next. It also balled up. He then proceeded to work
through another couple of vicious spells he knew. More balls of
magical energy lined up against the wards.It was only then that
Voldemort discovered within his host's memory that he carried a
portkey on him. It didn't matter where it went. Anywhere would be
better than this open-air stone cage he'd been inside.He pulled out the
Muggle lollipop, scowled at it, and tapped it with his wand. 
"Portus." He felt the yank behind his stomach. But he never
left the pavilion. Something was keeping him here.His wand didn't work.
 His spells didn't work outside the wards. And now even this
damned portkey didn't work. Voldemort's only minute source of
amusement was knowing that the all-powerful Dumbledore had made a
portkey that failed.Bracus Snape was
completely imprisoned inside his own mind. What had he just done? 
How had that jar taken over his mind? And why was his own wand
working for this madman? He felt Voldemort paging through his
memories at will and was completely unable to stop the powerful
wizard who'd already captured his body. So now his mind and soul
were up for domination, as well.Bracus Snape, raised as
a true pureblood, was having second thoughts. He'd thought to be
hailed and recognized for his achievement, not turned into a prisoner
by a vicious, ungrateful spirit. He was trapped inside himself as a
reward for his actions. Nothing seemed to be able to change that.He tried pushing
against his mental bonds. He tried to hide various things from
Voldemort's gaze. He tried expelling the presence in his mind by
using his Occlumency techniques. But nothing worked in a case of
possession like this.Harry looked at the
scene and was a) glad that the wards were working so well and b) very
upset that he had to handle this situation in front of so many
witnesses. It was a danger to him to truly reveal the extent of his
prowess. Most of the citizens had a decent clue, but only five or
seven had any real notion.But the longer that
Harry left Riddle inside Snape's body, the worse the damage would
be. And Harry was nothing if not fair. He wanted Snape back alive
and sane so that he could be properly punished for what he'd just
done.It was time to work. 
Harry drew out a simple piece of wood that looked like a wand. He'd
use it to distract this Tom Riddle character. The remaining Chosen
had heard about Harry's wandless skills, but this spirit hadn't. 
Then he needed a distraction or two.Harry stepped within a
foot of the pavilion's wards before he began to speak. "Do you
know why your wand refuses to work, Tom?"The spirit possessing
Bracus Snape glared at Harry."I removed the
phoenix feather in the core. It was a dead piece of wood that you
picked up, something only fit to display. I didn't want to leave
such a temptation out, but I forgot that an idiot like the one you've
possessed would consider you a bigger temptation… The boy didn't
even know what a soul jar was."Harry pushed in past
the wards, dispelling the various magical spells that were resting
against the wards. Harry brought up his stick – not a wand – and
said the words, "Vacuo Energia." A brief flash of white light
covered Bracus Snape's wand."I've long wondered
what I'd say to you, Tom, when we had this meeting." Harry
choked up for a moment. "You took my parents from me. You took
parents and children from a lot of people. And then when I captured
your followers I asked them why they'd joined behind you, I
actually wanted to know. Was it power? Was it an ideal? And most
of them couldn't say. Some just loved the sanctioned violence. 
Some of them believed their own personal theology regarding you. But
none of them believed in any kind of pureblood cleansing. They
believed, if anything, in power and advantage. And in you."Tom Riddle then
attempted another Killing Curse. And nothing happened. Then
Voldemort launched himself at Harry Potter. But Harry was ready."Stop."He put the possessed
Bracus Snape into a orbiting bind. His muscles were frozen, but he
was trapped in midair. Then Harry conjured ropes to bind him. The
problem with this Tom Riddle was that he'd managed minor feats of
wandless magic in his original body. But Bracus obviously had no
talents. Harry was unsure if Tom Riddle's spirit could help Bracus
along the path to possessing wandless talents."The stupid thing you
did, Tom, was to assume you needed fear and violence to win whatever
war you were fighting. You had wealthy supporters. People in the
government who'd support you. Why did you form your own army? Why
did none of your supporters know exactly what they were fighting for,
Tom?"Harry moved swiftly to
the main part of the pavilion, to all the little treasures Tom Riddle
had collected before and during his reign of terror. Harry picked up
a diary and said, "Animus Evacuat." A gray mist poured out of
the diary and entered Bracus Snape."I don't want to
know. I just want you gone. You were supposedly so smart, but you
couldn't see the most obvious things. Persuasion is harder than
killing, but it works so much better. Choice works better than
force. And, when you're in a war, you create your own worst
enemies. Tom, you killed yourself when you started this thing. Fate
and that goddamned prophecy dropped me into place to even the odds
up. Goodbye."Tom Riddle knew what
was happening now. He knew why he'd been trapped for so long. It
had taken that long for these people to locate his horcruxes. And
now they were going to use some sort of purging ceremony. Well, Tom
Riddle, Voldemort, the Dark Lord, he wasn't ready to give up any of
it yet. He started boring deeper and deeper inside Bracus Snape. He
tied his foul soul into Bracus Snape's magical core. He layered
himself inside Bracus Snape's memories. He pushed a part of
himself into Snape's heart and kidney. He was going to survive
whatever ritual this horrifying young man could conduct.Tom Riddle groaned in
pain as Hufflepuff's cup and Slytherin's locket were emptied of
their soul fragments. Then came Gaunt's ring and the Ravenclaw
cauldron, golden and the source of many of the greatest potions ever
created. He'd never had the chance to create his final planned
horcrux, but for the first time since he was a mere student, Tom
Riddle felt full again. His soul was all stitched back together. He
was no longer immortal.To the outside crowd,
the sight was sickening. The young, innocent looking child had
transformed into the young dark lord. Then as Harry had performed
his spell on more and more of the items, the possessed body had aged
and turned more gnarled and horrifying. Like the Muggles and their
story of the picture of Dorian Gray, this dark lord was aging and
putrifying in front of their eyes. All his crimes had been repaid to
him, all his horrifying rituals had been reversed. The totality of
his evil and decrepitude were now visible.Tom Riddle was seventy
years old, but he looked closer to two hundred. The skin of the body
he'd possessed now sagged with the abuse he'd inflicted on others
over the years. His eyes were sunken and drawn. He looked frail
now, frail and vulnerable.Harry Potter thought
for a second, then triggered a special subset of the wards
surrounding the pavilion. For a second the visible, but translucent,
wards shimmered and then turned dark and opaque. Harry needed to
keep these last steps to himself. He could share many secrets with
the world, but not this particular one. The Soul-Eating Curse was
something that should have been lost to time, but it had existed
inside one of Harry's memories. It was a disgusting piece of work,
horrifying. It was also one of the foundational spells to creating a
construct known as a dementor. (Reversing the process, so as to
destroy a dementor, was near the top of Harry's list of projects.)Harry cast several
spells without his 'wand,' without words. In sequence they began
to loosen the Tom Riddle spirit from its human host. Slowly, the
spirit lost its various connections. Like a parasite being ripped
from its host, the spirit struggled and tore at whatever it could
find. But Harry was meticulous in his approach. His final spells
forced the spirit out and froze it in midair, hovering around like an
insane gray-black mass.Harry tapped into the
depths of his reserve and cast three spells simultaneously. One
moved Bracus Snape away, far away, from the scene of the next spell. 
Another cast a containment field so that the entirety of the spirit
would be destroyed. And the final spell was the Soul-Eating Curse. 
Slowly, an otherworldly mouth opened up inside the containment field
and began to slurp down the vicious black-gray mist. It took thirty
seconds, but it was thorough. And only then did Harry begin to
comprehend the loud voices coming from the other side of the wards. 
They were angry and terrified and confused.Harry reached out and
adjusted the wards."Bring a healer,
Madam Tambor or Mister Wycross, someone with experience in mind
injuries."Remus Lupin apparated
off to fetch the needed help.It was only then that
the Chosen saw Bracus Snape returned to his former appearance. It
was only then that they understood that some sort of final battle had
occurred."Is Vol-l-l-the Dark
Lord dead," Neville Longbottom asked.Harry nodded once. 
"Completely gone."The silence was short
while everyone collected themselves. They'd long believed that
Voldemort was dead, before Harry had shown them the mist. Now he was
dead again. It didn't seem real exactly."Why could just
anyone walk in there?" Lisa Turpin was equal parts mad and
curious. "Why wasn't that jar behind a lock and a thick door?""Because people need
to see the truth. They also need to be able to make mistakes. The
spirit was prevented from coming out, but I prevented no one from
going in… I had to know that all the former Death Eaters had truly
renounced their former beliefs. I gave them the opportunity to fail.
 One can't just be goodness, you know, you can prove goodness in
the face of a temptation."There were more
questions. And then the Potter Estate Council showed up based on the
half-sensible reports they'd started hearing. And then the healers
came to the scene. It was a minor nightmare.Harry directed the
healers to Bracus Snape first. He was still alive, but it seemed his
consciousness was detached from his body. The mind healers would
have to work on that. Then, when it seemed the night was settling
down, Bracus Snape's heart stopped.Harry tugged the
Council and the Chosen away from the pavilion. They didn't need to
see this kind of thing right now. The healers would obviously do
their best."Why did Snape go for
that jar," Fred Weasley asked. He and his brother were the oldest
Chosen and hadn't really known Bracus at all in school.The immediate consensus
wasn't kind to the dying Snape. Some focused on the fact that
"Snape wanted attention" and others decided that Snape "was a
Death Eater like his father." But Harry was thinking along
different lines. He'd seen the attempt at using a portkey. He'd
seen Blaise and Bracus both attempting to steal – not that they
were the only ones."No," Harry said,
"my interpretation is a bit different. I sent out the invitation
to Bracus not expecting him to come. His father and mine did not
like each other in school. I couldn't fathom a Snape coming here,
but he met the criteria. But he did show up. His father probably
had to lay aside his prejudices, Dumbledore would have made him…"Two things happened
then. The healers shouted out that Bracus was breathing and pumping
blood again. And George Weasley asked, "Why would Dumbledore have
anything to do with what Bracus did?""...take a guess how
many spies Dumbledore had inside the Death Eaters… Seven. But he
only saved one of them after the fall of Tom Riddle, the first fall. 
The rest he left to their own devices, so that Remus and Sirius could
capture them, so that we could confiscate their lands. But, he kept
Severus around, probably as an insurance policy. Dumbledore has been
interested in the Potter Emporium for as long as they've been
around. He's sent letters to "the Head of the Potter Emporiums"
several times a year for a very long time. And I believe he sent
Bracus here as a spy. Bracus would have been going after that soul
jar for Dumbledore, for his father. And, thus, another one in the
service of Dumbledore meets his fate." Harry was almost spitting
in disgust. He had watery eyes as he looked at his parents. There
was a lot he wasn't telling to the Chosen, but Harry obviously had
hatred inside him for the Headmaster of Hogwarts.Harry was in no more
mood to be a good host. He waved Sirius Black over and asked him to
escort the Chosen to their quarters for the night. He could take the
night to regroup. And let the Chosen formulate their questions. "Be
sure to give them the packets on the Apprenticeship Program."Sirius nodded, smiled,
and left with them via portkey. Harry figured that they would all be
receiving some kind of prank sometime soon.Harry turned his
attention to the healers. "He's stable now. We're getting
ready to take him to my suite," Healer Wycross said. Each Healer
maintained a private practice and private healing suite. It was a
better idea than a large hospital subject to cross contamination. 
Plus different healers concentrated on different types of injuries.Harry then moved on to
his Council. They'd reconstructed as much of the disaster as they
could. Harry answered their questions for an hour before he agreed
to an early morning Council meeting the next morning.Harry spent fifteen
minutes talking with the ghosts of his parents. The long nightmare
was finally over. Tom Riddle was finally destroyed and the Potter
Estate could finally begin moving forward."I know you tried,
son," Lily said. "But you can't blame yourself if Bracus
suffered from what he did."Harry scowled and then
nodded. A person reaps what he sows…"Snapes usually
deserve what they get," James said. "I saved one of them once
and a lot of good it did the world. Severus was the one who turned
over that overheard prophecy to Voldemort. I killed myself, I guess,
when I saved that worthless bastard…but it took a couple of years
for it to catch up.""Mercy for those who
deserve it, dad. And there is no place for sentimentality any more."Lily looked concerned. 
"Albus and Severus are going to scream for blood when Bracus is
returned to them.""You're going to
have to deal with them and the Ministry sooner than we expected,
son," James said.Harry just nodded. 
These implications had already occurred to him. Plus the plans
inside the Magic Factory already dealt with a necessary earlier
handling of Dumbledore, Snape, and the Ministry."I'm going to call
it a night. Draco was supposed to visit tonight to talk over his
Mastery work. But I know he's still tied up in knots…""Hasn't proposed
yet to that girl?""No, and Hermione
knows he's working up the courage, too. It's a laugh in her
view."His parents shooed
Harry back to his home. And, sure enough, Draco was there. It took
only a few minutes to relate the day's happenings. Harry was good
with brevity around people he trusted. He went a little long in the
explanation when he was nervous or around people he didn't know or
trust."…so now we're
completely exposed to the world, or will be very soon. This Snape
kid was a complete screw up. I can't believe Hogwarts had him
listed as the top student in his year."Draco nodded. "An
utter moron…"Harry smiled at this. 
"And how goes your personal quest?"Draco flushed, but did
admit to purchasing a ring. Harry smiled, ate some more dinner, and
then looked over the papers on his messy desk.One, in particular,
seemed particularly unpleasant. It was another one of Dumbledore's
letters that he dropped off with the elves in the Potter Emporium. 
It again asked for a meeting.This time, Harry knew,
he couldn't put it off. The plans around Dumbledore gave the
Estate a narrow window. And, because of his fairness bias, Harry
actually wanted to ascertain that Dumbledore had committed the
numerous crimes he was suspected of. The meeting wouldn't stop the
American plans, though.Harry pushed the
parchment toward Draco."You're actually
planning on saying 'yes' this time, aren't you?"Harry nodded. "I was
thinking maybe early on January 10th."Draco looked puzzled
for a second. "But that's the day…"Harry smiled. 
"Exactly. That's the day all of the evidence hits the American
press. The articles will be reprinted in Britain maybe on the 11th
or the 12th. Or maybe Dumbledore will have them blocked. 
But that would be proof in and of itself. The French press reviles
him, so they wouldn't hesitate to reprint the stuff. And maybe we
could have the Oompahs do some hand deliveries that day…"Draco smiled. His
friend Harry was brilliant, ruthless when pursuing a criminal, and
otherwise fair and very pleasant. Draco rather enjoyed growing up
here, versus what he'd heard of the Death Eater lifestyle. Yes,
this was infinitely better.Draco left around
eleven that evening, after getting a bit of helpful advice for his
mastery work. And then Harry spent another hour considering what to
do about Bracus Snape. It wouldn't be an easy meeting in the
morning with the Council. They'd literally want the kid's head. 
And preserved in place of the disappeared spirit of Tom Riddle. A
rather bloodthirsty lot some days.





--------




Harry and the Magic FactoryChapter 10X-c-X-c-X-c-XDecember 23, 1997It was an early
morning. And it promised to be a long day. The Council meeting had
started long before the dawn and was still going as the sun rose
above the Earth.Finally, Harry was done
with attempting to reason with these people on this issue. "No,
that's it," he said. "If you attempt to pass special
legislation to deal with the Apprentices, I will veto it. If you
convene a judge and jury, I will issue a full pardon…and not even
award these morons the punishments that they do deserve. I will not
have us thought of as bloodthirsty. I will not take lives unless in
war, or if there are no other alternatives."The Council was
decidedly unhappy. Most of the members knew that Harry had a
backbone, but he rarely had to demonstrate how firm it was. Most of
these people had never seen him fight for something before. It was
awe-inspiring and just a bit terrifying.But one of them,
Bilirubin Anders, just wouldn't let it drop. He had come to the
Potter Estate early on because of his work with experimental charms. 
He'd pursued a Mastery, brought his family in, and remained. And
now he had his two-year term on the Council. And he respected no one
and nothing, it seemed.Harry examined
everything about this man, all that he had seen before, all that he
was seeing now. Harry was dismayed he hadn't noticed any of these
patterns before. This Anders person was just itching to turn the
Council into a kind of hereditary fiefdom, the breeding ground of
incompetence, just as the British Ministry of Magic was. Harry
decided to let Anders play his games for now. But only for as long
as it took to understand what the man's true plans were…and who
his supporters and backers were. Harry would not stand for the
recreation of useless factions and ideologies. Were people that
bored that they actually wanted to play politics? Were they that
stupid that they wanted to paralyze themselves into immobility –
and be led by people like this Anders?Harry let another five
minutes of discussion pass on before he decided the meeting should
end. So he dropped a bombshell. "I will be meeting personally
with Albus Dumbledore on January the Tenth."Yup, that did it. The
people inside the Potter Estate hated Voldemort, but they loathed
what they'd observed of Dumbledore over the years. Harry had
rescued war orphans from the man so they wouldn't be economically
drained and shunted off to an unloving home. Harry had even shielded
the worst of Dumbledore's crimes from his general citizrenry, but
the man's approach to expediency and the lives and rights of
children were enough. The Council had forgotten all about Bracus
Snape now and was hounding for Dumbledore's head."No," was how Harry
stopped that argument. "We will merely present the facts and see
where the British public and government goes from there…"He was interrupted a
few times, but Harry already knew what the objections would be."…and if the
government does nothing because Dumbledore has too much influence,
well that is valuable knowledge. If that happens, I am willing to
discuss more punitive measures with the Council."That was enough to
appease most of them. If Harry was talking about possible 'punitive
measures,' then whatever he'd cook up would certainly be
entertaining, pointed, and effective. He certainly was vicious
enough when it came to certain classes of criminals, not that they
had many. The last case of child abuse had been eight years ago…and
everyone present in the Potter Estate still remembered how that had
ended. Harry taught lessons once, and people learned them. Thieves
and child abusers, though, were treated especially harshly. Any
crime against a weaker soul was anathema.The Council was getting
ready to leave when Harry murmured, "Please do plan something to
commemorate the passing of Tom Riddle. I don't think we need a
parade or anything gaudy, but something so that we're sure everyone
here knows."Well, that was the
right kind of sop. The Council wasn't allowed to execute Bracus
Snape, but they were allowed to throw a massive, 'restrained'
celebration for the destruction of Tom Riddle. Even filled with
middle aged witches and wizards, the Council was pretty damned good
at spending money and throwing parties."Make the New Year's
Celebration even better. We'll mark the anniversary of Riddle's
passage with our New Year's festivals from now on."That also went a long
way toward making the Council happy. It wouldn't be just the one
party. It would be parties stretching on for years in the future,
too.X-c-X-c-X-c-XAt the Potter School,
the eight remaining Chosen were enjoying breakfast, albeit with
frayed nerves, when Sirius Black entered the room. Sirius knew that
many of them were feeling calmer about what they'd seen with Tom
Riddle and Bracus Snape yesterday. But the rest of them seemed more
ready to tackle a dark lord of their own rather than sit these
upcoming examinations. Only Fred and George seemed to be at ease. 
Of course, their brief conversation with Harry had indicated that
they'd already performed well on one kind of Potter Estate test. 
And that was a test they'd both enjoyed enormously.Sirius smiled at the
crowd and asked an Oompah for some breakfast, too. Sirius watched
every one of the remaining candidates while he ate. He expected at
least one of them to crack during the first day of testing. Remus
was betting on a minimum of two. Alastor Moody agreed with Sirius,
but had specifically put his money on his grandnephew, Fenecule,
flunking out."Not a lot of depth
in that part of the gene pool," Alastor had said. "Boy's smart
enough in an academic sense, but wouldn't have the first idea as to
applying what he knows. He won't get by with textbook answers on a
test like that one."Sirius was still trying
to consider what would happen. He knew fairly well who would do well
– Harry had already shared his opinions on that subject and Harry
was about the best judge of character, skill, and talent they had.Sirius finished his
meal, saw that everyone else was either done or just picking at their
plates, and stood up. "Let me give you some explanations and
context for the examinations. They're normally sat at fourteen or
fifteen by our students, but that's after nine or ten years of
schooling. Some of the subjects covered on the exam aren't offered
at your school, so you won't be expected to cover them. In fact,
you will be able to specify exactly what subjects you will be tested
on, plus any foreign languages you are competent in. Ordinarily we
require four before a student sits the exam, but the Apprenticeship
Program gives all of you an exemption…"The longer Sirius
spoke, the more annoyed he saw the Chosen becoming. They didn't
like having to be granted so many different exemptions because of
their supposedly 'substandard' schooling. He was hoping it would
give them some fire in their bellies. The testing really was as
challenging as everyone said it was."…the testing
system begins with several baseline questions. Then, depending upon
your answers, it begins asking harder or easier questions until it
determines your level of understanding within a subject. The system
understands partially correct answers and awards credit. All of this
happens on day one, by the way. Day two is taken up by practicals in
all the areas you've been tested in. You'll brew potions, cast
spells, and do the, err, other things required in practicals. And
day three is…rather unique. We refer to it as the oral
examination. Three teachers here will meet with each of you to go
over your first two days' results and then to ask additional
questions and ensure our testing procedure correctly gauged your
level of understand…"The fire was gone and
the nerves were back. The Chosen, save for those insane Weasleys,
looked about ready to pass out."…one final
explanation on the first day. The testing device is very clever. 
You will not have the same examination as anyone else in the room,
not by a long shot. Also, as you'll be indicating your particular
strengths, namely your strongest academic subject, the device will
skew your questions in that direction. For example, my strength
might be Defense. So the testing device will ask me first about
potions related to defense, the history of spells and battles, and
the like, before it moved on to more general matter. It's designed
to help ease you into the test. You should expect to be here all
day. Each of you will have between four hundred and seven hundred
questions to answer…"That drew a response. 
A negative one. "What?" "My brain will fall out of my head…"
 "Are you insane?"But Sirius smiled and
kept on talking. "If your skill levels are easy to place –
meaning you're either very gifted in everything or very unskilled –
you'll have a short exam. If you're a mix, skilled in some and
less so in others, your examination will be longer as the device will
try to assess to an insanely detailed level exactly what you know. I
should also mention that many of the questions on the examination
will be multidisciplinary. You may be asked to assess the effects of
a number of different charms when used on a number of different
potions, for example. Thus proving your knowledge of those charms
and those potions. It's really a devilish little thing."With that, Sirius
smirked, turned, and started walking toward a door in the wall. He
motioned for everyone else to follow along. The testing room was
just ahead.X-c-X-c-X-c-XHarry walked into the
quiet room at Healer Wycross' home and saw his good friend, Cedric
Diggory. Cedric would shortly be completing his first mastery in
healing, but the young man enjoyed working with patients more than
the stuffy research he did behind a desk.Cedric was perfectly
happy spending all his time with patients. He had the perfect
personality to be one of the best Healers in the Potter Estate. He
also, thankfully, had the right mix of skills and abilities."How's our idiot
doing?"Cedric smiled, then
looked a bit upset. "As a healer, I should be angry with your
little joke. But who in their right mind would want to pick up a
filled soul jar? Aren't they teaching kids anything these days?"Harry shook his head. 
"Best student in his year at Hogwarts. However. They probably
don't even touch on soul magics there. And they certainly don't
teach common sense.""Kid was doomed
before he even set foot inside the pavilion, then.""A probable lifetime
of being told he was better and smarter and cleverer than he really
was dooms anyone. I don't know if I blame an inadequate education
more than an inadequate upbringing…but perhaps we'll know after
some people start poking around in his head. Or maybe not."Cedric smiled and
shrugged. There was no answer to the puzzle, although it was amusing
to speculate.Harry peaked around the
room and saw an unmoving form in one of the beds. "How is he
doing?""He regained
consciousness late last night, Healer Wycross told me. But he hasn't
said anything yet. And then there's his test results."With that, Harry cast
several silent, wordless spells at the young Bracus Snape. Harry
cast them a second time. "I guess I see what the problem is, then.
 He's reading like a squib now. He's alive, sane, but without
magic. At least temporarily. I wonder if Tom Riddle booby trapped
his body that way. Getting rid of the spiritual possession destroys
the magic?"Cedric shrugged. "We
may never know.""I'll be back in a
day or two to talk with him. He's committed about the worst kind
of crime we have here. But his loss of magic complicates the
situation."Cedric just nodded. 
Newly made squibs were particularly ferocious and unpleasant. It was
also an unexpected consequence of possession, at least as far as
Potter Necromantics had studied the phenomenon.Harry still had one
other criminal to deal with. Harry called for the Oompah named
Totobama. The ancient, wise Oompah appeared immediately. It was her
job to keep the Apprentices on the straight and narrow, at least as
long as they wanted to be there. It was also her job to let them
fail when the time came."Toto, is Blaise
Zabini ready to leave?"Totobama nodded. 
"Nasty cheat is all cleaned up. His memory is charmed. Plus,
whenever he thinks of us, he'll have a roaring headache."Harry smiled. Totobama
shared much of Harry's sense of fairness and justice. It had been
a fortuitous selection."Send him along like
you did with Cormac McLaggen. Include the embarrassing note that
he's been expelled for attempted theft and his rights to claim to
be Chosen are revoked. Make sure the newspapers get copies, too."Totobama looked toward
the occupied hospital bed. She was curious about this third one."Nothing on him for
now, Toto," Harry said. "He's complicated and the worst of the
lot. We may never be able to reverse what's happened to him."Totobama got a feral
smile on her face. For a moment, she looked part-goblin, about to
descend upon her opponent in a moment of weakness.Then she returned to
being a very fair Oompah. Harry smiled at her and bid her good day. 
Cedric was laughing by the time she departed.X-c-X-c-X-c-XFred Weasley quickly
moved through the pre-test. He marked down the subjects he was
competent in, more than he'd ever revealed to the folks at
Hogwarts, and then had to think for a second what his greatest
academic strengths were. As 'utter mayhem' wasn't a choice,
Fred selected Potions. He was a good prankster, but his first love
would always be his cauldron and the things he could make it do.George was having a
harder time deciding. Was he a Charms master or a true Prankster? 
Eventually, for the sake of appearing more serious, he decided that
Charms would be his strength for the duration of this exam. George
had certainly mastered every shrinking, enlarging, and color charm
ever created by witch or wizard.The room filled with
groans when the first questions appeared on their magical screens.For Fred: "1. The
fennel plant is closely related to a number of magical plant species.
 Identify five closely related species. For each specie, identify
two potions that use it. For each potion, identify the likely
reaction if fennel seed were used in place of the required magical
ingredient."Fred was sweating now. 
This was harder than anything he'd ever worked on for his NEWTS. 
Hell, it was harder than the Potions mastery exam put out by the
British Ministery. It was herbology and potions, rote memory plus
experimental and theoretical aspects, all in the same question. It
was insane.But, as his eyes
threatened to roll back into his head, Fred discovered he actually
knew the answers to the question. His mother, Molly, loved fennel. 
He'd seen it in the garden; he'd tasted it. He could see exactly
what its magical counterparts might be. Fred knew he could do this.George had gasped at
his first question. First, it wasn't in English, but rather
Spanish. George was kicking himself that he'd entered any language
proficiency at all in the pre-test. Apparently the device took that
as a clue to test the language as well as the subject matter. After
he worked out the translation, he gasped again. "1. The
arithmantic principles behind any given charm break down in similar
ways. Identify one charm from each of the following fields:
summoning, levitation, secrecy, gender inversion, and
stasis-induction. For each charm, show the arithmantic equations
behind the spell. Finally, from these five examples, explain your
conclusions as to the similarities behind these charms given that
they each do vastly different things."George knew that the
hardest charms on record were the stasis-inducing ones. And secrecy
spells, like the Fidelius Charm, were almost unknown anymore and were
certainly not taught in school. The Ministry actually classified a
gender inverting charm as a restricted spell, which was a good thing,
since it made sure that George learned a couple just for kicks (and
for the knowledge it was restricted). But the depth and breadth of
knowledge required for a single question was mind-boggling. And this
whole question was asking for arithmantic proofs. George hadn't
studied the subject in school at all, just self-study to help improve
his chances of starting a joke shop with his brother.He wanted to throw the
test down and walk away first thing. But he noticed his brother
seemed to be doing well so far. At least he wasn't projectile
vomiting like he sometimes did to get out of tests.So George knew he
couldn't let Fred show him up. And, as his fear diminished, George
realized he knew all the required charms. And his mind had started
to decode them into the arithmantic components. He could do at least
some of this. He could.When he tried to write
his answers in arithmantic equations, the device accepted them. But
when he filled out the more subjective portions, the device refused
anything in England. He had to answer the blasted test in Spanish. 
George was kicking himself.'Bugger. Bugger. 
Bugger."X-c-X-c-X-c-XHarry arrived at the
Potter Press later that morning, after taking tea and some breakfast
with Cedric. He needed to quickly finish up a long-standing project
of his. It would be very useful now. This dry sounding book he was
working on had been in various stages of production for a long
time…but it would soon be incredibly important in a political
sense. Harry opened his small cubicle of an office on the third
floor. He pulled open the desk drawer where his longhand version was
sitting. The cover sheet read, "The Rise and Fall of Tom Riddle,
Once Known as the Dark Lord Voldemort." Harry was giving himself
the rest of the day to write the final chapter and fill in the
missing details.This would supplant all
the false versions out there. And the planned attachments, namely
two sets of duplicated memories included with every copy, would show
edited versions of when Voldemort attempted to kill Harry as an
infant and when he possessed Bracus Snape's body.This book was
incredibly important. And it could, if done correctly, perform a lot
of good in the world. The first part of which was dispelling a lot
of medievalism still extant inside Britain's witches and wizards.Harry put his pen down
to paper. "On December 22, 1997, the spirit form of Tom Riddle
successfully possessed a young wizard who wasn't aware of the
purpose of a soul jar. While possessed, Tom Riddle attempted to
break free…"





--------




Harry and the Magic
FactoryChapter 11X-c-X-c-X-c-XFred Weasley was
actually sweating now. Real sweat. His hair was plastered to his
forehead. This test was killing him. He was now on question
nineteen and he'd been working on the test for four hours. Sirius
Black and the other proctors made people stop once an hour to drink
water, but this thing was killing him."19. Discuss the
ethical dilemma confronted by your hypothetical participation in
warfare. When is it permitted to kill or maim rather than capture? 
Use any three ethical frameworks you prefer to complete your
response."Fred didn't know the
first thing about ethics, so he worked through it as quickly as he
could. It was only when he saw the next question that he breathed a
small sigh of relief."20. Goblins are
reputed to be a warlike race by most witches and wizards. Offer
three short examples (one sentence each or less) to suggest alternate
motivations."That was easy. Old
Ghostie Binns had certainly never taught this kind of material (as he
believed goblins were capable only of horrifying violence and
rebellion), so of course it was of interest to Fred. Fred had
actually chatted with a number of the guards stationed in Gringotts
in Diagon Alley. They were quite chatty if you asked the right
questions; but most witches and wizards believed the old Binns-style
line and never bothered to ask. He quickly wrote down, "Goblins
are motivated strongly by the apparent safety of their family, the
freedom for the discovery and working of precious metals, and the
freedom to to create and protect mines – the inability to do any of
them leads to their more warlike tendencies."Fred had seventy-five
more questions that were equally simple, but they covered the gamut
of magic from history to conjuration to ancient runes and spell-based
warding. He was now in the nineties after twenty minutes passed. 
This test was hard and bizarre. Impossible, multipart questions
followed by short, simple, but wide-ranging short answer things. His
brain felt sore; it certainly didn't get this much use back in his
cubicle in the Ministry of Magic.And now back to even
harder multipart questions. How was he going to last through four
hundred or more of these questions?"94. Within the
history of wizarding practical jokes, most pranksters focus on charms
work or potions, but neglect other areas of the wizarding repertoire
– and completely ignore the contributions to pranking from muggles
and other species. Using a minimum of one truth potion (you specify
the exact variety), three muggle (or nonmagical) means, two different
warding schemes, one conjuration or transfiguration, one projectile
vomiting potion, and three techniques from nonhuman pranking (dragon
pranks are not approved for this question as a result of their
lethality), sketch out who the recipients of the prank will be (and
why), what their physical surroundings will look like, and how you
will use these means (plus any other necessary) to achieve your
affect. What chance of success do you give yourself based on this
plan?"Holy Merlin. Now this
was the kind of question Fred enjoyed answering. In fact, he already
had a half dozen potential scenarios in his head. And each of them
was bizarre and completely brilliant. Oh my. Oh my!This was the hardest
question Fred had seen so far (warding, transfiguration, obscure
muggle history, obscure history of other races, two very challenging
potions, plus logic, engineering, and planning), but his heart was
racing with excitement. He had already learned about a dozen new
things just from reading the question – and he still didn't have
the slightest idea of what a dragon prank might be, but it sounded
worthwhile researching.George had been
enjoying his test for longer than his brother, Fred. He was also up
to question 107. But that question was a real impossibility: it
obviously had no correct answers. So George decided to try his best."107. You are in a
combat situation with three level 2-trained witches and wizards
(meaning they've passed their basic competency but have not yet
begun mastery studies) along with four unknown creatures. The
setting is a dark room. You know that additional reinforcements are
coming for both sides within two minutes. What do you do with your
two minutes to ensure maximum safety for yourself and maximum damage
to your enemies? Please demonstrate knowledge of non-lethal
offensive dueling techniques in addition to at least three types of
defensive measures. Assume at least one of the creatures is heavily
magic resistant. Assume none of the witches or wizards are trained
in mind magics or necromancy."How could one witch or
wizard – namely George – stand up for two minutes under those
kinds of odds? Creatures and equivalent- or better-trained human
opponents. Impossible! But George started scratching down some
ideas. He only had to survive for two minutes. And George was
strong with his charms and with his limited conjuration. His defense
was pretty decent, but on the offense he didn't know much as
Hogwarts hadn't really bothered to teach it.So George scratched out
the following. "Grounded semi-spherical protection ward preventing
any spells from coming in or leaving it. Use of a full body Air
Bubble Charm on myself. Dropping a handful of the Noxious Nettles
potions I carry on myself inside the middle of the protection sphere.
 Anyone wishing to cause me harm would have to come inside and fight
while eyes and skin are under fierce attack. Would add a darkening
ward to the protection sphere to reduce visibility of the inside and
me from the outside. Conjure small piece of wood; transfigure into a
hacking weapon of some kind to use against the magic resistant
animal, if it comes into attacking range. Set up four interlaced
detection wards outside the protection bubble to alert me who is
attempting to breach. Twist several offensive wards into the
detection ones to mask them. Offensive wards would be confunding or
mind inversion wards as they're relatively simple when cast as
spells. For offensive dueling inside protection sphere, would use
fast to cast spells like Reducto and Incendio. The more powerful
offensive spells I know have more obvious tells, where I can cast
Reducto and Incendio nearly wordlessly…"It wasn't that much
of a plan, but George thought it might actually last through two
minutes. It would even the odds a bit, force the attackers to come
into a specially prepared environment. And a protection sphere,
grounded to the earth in some way, was simple to cast, but took far
longer than two minutes to break. The only complication was trying
to get the attackers to come at him in a reasonable manner. He could
probably deal with one or two at a time. So George added this,
"Would also attempt to transfigure other items in the room into
large slabs of stone, then levitate them into a rough circle around
my protection sphere, leaving only one easy point of entrance into
the protection sphere. Any attempts at coming in through other areas
would be announced by heavy spell work first…"George re-read his
answer and was more than pleased. The scenario had almost stopped
his heart, but given a moment of time, George realized he actually
understood more defense and more offense than he expected. He
doubted whether he could actually cast all the wards necessary in the
allotted time – or before he was attacked – but at least it was
guidance as to what to do. Plus the basis of his defense, one ward,
one thrown potion vial, and one charm was actually very fast work. 
It was all the extra goodies that'd take time. But George knew he
could have the basic framework up in ten seconds or so.He moved on to the next
question. History, magical theory, and politics this one. "108. 
Recount briefly the historical and political process that lead the
British Ministry of Magic to declare three particular spells
Unforgivable. Compare this with the process used in one other
country of your choice. Finally, briefly, state your opinion on
whether the process correctly identified the right spells as
Unforgivable. If you disagree with the findings, list your chosen
Unforgivable candidate spells, if any."That was the kind of
question George expected: rough, like a kick in the teeth. He now
wished he'd at least opened his History of Magic textbooks, even if
he couldn't abide Binns' lectures. George wouldn't be getting
much credit, if any, for this question. So he pulled out his best
bullshitting skills and started writing some half intelligible
answers.X-c-X-c-X-c-XHarry Potter finished
the longhand version of his book on Tom Riddle. The last portions of
the story were easier to tell than he'd expected. Now it was time
to hand the whole thing off to the editorial staff; they knew to
expect it. The book would be published without authorial attribution
and that made Harry all the more pleased. He had no desire for fame
from such an obviously fickle public. At least the people inside the
Potter Estate knew him. Harry had met every single one many times,
not the least of which when each citizen came before the Mastery
Board. Harry, as the most gifted of the Masters, chaired the panel
and basically decided whether people were allowed to become citizens
or not. He had to ensure that only decent, if not good, people with
suitable ethical frameworks were allowed to stay. Because evil
people could learn a lot of damaging stuff by hanging around – more
than enough arcane and dark arts to set themselves up far better than
even Tom Riddle had. Hell, Potter Estate had its own necromantics
division, assuming a would-be evil lord were interested in inferi and
other hellish abominations.It was vital that only
intelligent, ethical people be inducted into the mysteries, be given
access to whatever knowledge they desired. That was perhaps the job
Harry took the most seriously: his chairing of the Mastery Board. 
Perhaps, Harry wondered, it was time to take a look at everyone who
already had their Mastery. It would be a useful thing to make sure
everyone was fulfilling their oaths to continue and improve in their
fields. Useless people were a drag on the Potter Estate. Contribute
and you'd be welcome to stay; become a parasite, like that
now-destroyed dead dark lord, and you were no longer welcome in any
respect.Harry walked outside
his office and crossed the hall. He knocked on the conference room
door and then walked through. The smiling faces had been waiting for
this day: the end of Tom Riddle, the day when they could begin
informing the world about his failures.Harry watched as the
editorial witches and wizards began transcribing his hand written
book into neat, legible pass of typescript. They had a few questions
for him before Harry left them to their work. "The sooner, the
better" was his only request.Harry portaled to the
Magic Factory. He knew the staff there would still be around and he
had time for his weekly business update. Harry loved the business
that Sirius and Remus had founded, that Lily and James had been
advising since the necromancers had managed to make contact with
their spirits. But Harry now treated it as his own: he loved
spending hours in all the different divisions. He personally could
test pranks or talk potions for hours. He was reputed to have
personal experiments and projects brewing in six different divisions;
Harry knew it was actually eight.But Harry did not
particularly enjoy the financial aspects. His businesses made money,
lots of it. That's all that Harry asked: have fun, do interesting
work, and make me a bit of money. But trying to figure out how to
make even more wasn't all that interesting to him. Instead, he
focused on the people he hired and let them exercise their passions. 
Still, he had weekly meetings to ensure Harry didn't completely
forget that part of business: no one could be busy without having
cash come in the doors.So, while everyone
focused on the money, the knuts and galleons, dollars and euros,
Harry focused on the bigger picture. He only needed to money to
ensure that his grander plans came to pass. So he focused on making
the money work for him.Harry walked up the
stairs and entered the Counting Room. The seven employees had
seemingly been expecting him. They had quickly conjured up a table
and a chair for him and were prepared to report.Harry sat down, flicked
quickly through the thick sheaf of papers they laid before him, and
listened while the first twenty minutes went by. Each one knew they
had three to five minutes to summarize. Harry would direct the
questions from there.When the presentations
were over, Harry turned to the thick sheaf of papers and asked one of
his financial managers a simple question, "Has our investment in
pharmaceutical companies paid off in their being more receptive to
following our advice?"These people didn't
understand RD. They knew profit margins and the like. But they
still understood that Pfizer, Merck, and all the others were
beginning to die because of their unchanging methods of research –
and their terribly inefficient methods of drug discovery.So the advisors had to
tell the truth, the truth Harry already knew.Harry stood up and
plucked a thin volume from a shelf. He'd written the outline of
this plan several years ago, everyone in the room knew about that
earlier draft, but none of them had particularly liked it. It meant
vast changes to how they managed money."This is what I call
Wing Attack Plan R because it's completely insane and also
guaranteed to work." Harry loved talking in Muggle jokes with this
straight backed wizards. Now they'd be condemned to go out and
figure out the allusion. "I've listened to all of you, then to
the goblins, then to the best of the gurus in the Muggle world. And
I think I'm done sitting on the fence. Here's how it lays out. 
Anything of strategic importance to us, like ensuring better health
care to muggles, for example, we own completely, either through an
outright acquisition or the founding of a new company. Like that
Oracle of Omaha seems to think, it's better to own than rent."Another allusion. 
Another thing to look up."Keep the investments
in the pharmaceutical companies, but stop passing them ideas. We'll
found a new company, call it a biotech, give it ideas from the
magical world. It'll drive everyone else out of business in twenty
years. And don't let it focus on just cancer cures and the like. 
Let's fix the more minor issues: let's give them a mild bone
healing cure, so they don't have to deal with plaster casts and the
like. Let's own food companies. Let's own solid, stable
businesses that will be around for a hundred years or more. You can
still throw money after these other things, but it will be an after
thought only, opportunistic. Our strategy is too important to waste
on foolish Muggles, we'll only work with the smart ones…"Everyone around the
table already knew Harry's definition of a food. "If I show a
man a wonderful thing and he doesn't try to copy it immediately,
he's a fool.""Also, I thought I'd
pass along some information I've been thinking about…stuff that
came from the goblins a few months back. It seems they practice a
form of divination, but it is almost solely focused on wealth and how
to gain more of it. What they mentioned was a three part prophecy,
which I agree seems to make sense: translated it says, "The old
and true loses value, but is richer than ever before. The bright and
sparkly has glister in everyone's eye, but will drop more quickly
than it rose, a puff of air dispelled. Land as always, a forest of
evergreen, ever to grace the world and preside."The table fell into
dissecting the goblin prophecy. Although everyone knew that it was
rare to impossible that goblins would ever share with a human, no one
mentioned how extraordinary this information was. Harry didn't
seem to know or care. He, like the goblins, just wanted to know what
he could do with it.Harry had spent a long
time nursing it over, and comparing it to the Muggle world. He could
already see what was happening. Irrational muggles are quickly
parted from their money. Harry didn't mind playing in their pool
for a while, but he wouldn't be the one left poorer at the end."…so dabble as you
like, even with some high risk possibilities. Focus especially on
things that work with information, that process it or store it or
retrieve it. They have infinitely better tools than we do now. But
ignore their medicine, their transportation, and the rest unless we
decide to buy it outright. We'll own a thing, or play with it like
a fish in a current, but we won't bank on Muggles listening to us
unless we control their companies. The goblins were telling me the
other day that when they go off to steal the Muggle records from
their financial auditors that these well-paid auditors don't even
catch half the schemes these Muggles are pulling. It's like
everyone is blind over there. But we won't be. No funny business,
none. Child abusers, thieves, and cheats – my top three forms of
crime, you know."The meeting lasted a
while longer, but everyone knew that the important meeting would come
after everyone absorbed this so-called "Wing Attack Plan R" that
Harry had drawn up. All the advice he'd mentioned – their new
rules, it seemed – was sensible, but seemed very conservative for
reason. Obviously buying up tons of undeveloped land, tons of fully
developed real estate, and then buying companies out of favor with
the general public didn't seem very sexy stuff. It would be a
while until these advisors realized the kind of quiet revolution
Harry was advocating.He'd copied several
elements of his proposed style from the American muggle billionaire
Warren Buffett. Harry always liked to steal ideas from the best. In
this case, the 'best' was proven by who became the richest.X-c-X-c-X-c-XCheating or borrowing
ideas was well-respected, if only secretly, in the business world. 
However, stealing or cheating on an examination was a fairly
dangerous concept. It was too bad that that particular lesson hadn't
permeated the minds of all the Chosen.Sirius Black, returned
from his midday break, was back to proctoring the examination. He
saw the problem first. The young girl named Lisa Turpin, reputedly
the smartest witch in her year at Hogwarts, had apparently frozen up.
 Her face was drawn and almost shock-white.He offered her some
water or a brief break. She'd accepted the water then refused to
stop, even for a short break.Then, ten minutes
later, she looked human again. It wasn't a minute later when she
screamed like someone was murdering her."My answer
disappeared," she whimpered. "I had written it halfway, about
the Philosopher's Stone and making the Elixir of Life…and why
other methods at increasing longevity had failed. Now it's all
gone, my whole answer is ruined." Her voice had gotten steadily
strong the longer she wailed in unhappiness.Sirius knew what the
most likely problem was. So, he paused the testing for everyone,
gave them a fifteen minute break, and then went to address this Lisa
Turpin.He comforted her for a
moment before pulling her testing device away from her. He tapped it
once with his wand and was shocked at what he saw. This 'smartest
witch of her year' was only on question seventeen after six and a
half hours of testing. All of the other had to be near question two
hundred or beyond. Why was she so far behind?She shook his head,
trying to clear it. Then he tapped the device once more. The
resulting answer on the screen was clear and unpleasant. "Use of
"Potion of Knowledge" Recorded Three Minutes Earlier; Testing
Halted."Sirius frowned. Then
he set the device down and cast a spell at Lisa. It gave him the
same results as what the device had implied. Lisa had cheated by
using a prohibited potion. God only knows why she'd brought it
with her. But she had definitely ingested it, perhaps at the same
time she'd been having her earlier breakdown. A smart witch only
getting through a handful of these questions in six-plus hours was
enough to tempt anyone into cheating. But not everyone fell.Sirius called for
Totobama. Lisa let herself be taken away by the house elf. She
didn't know it yet but Lisa would now be forever prohibited from
becoming a citizen of the Potter Estate. Cheating was as close to a
capital crime as Harry had ever decreed; just slightly lower on the
scale than child abuse and theft.Sirius sighed for a
second. He also realized that Lisa hadn't exactly failed the test,
either. She'd cheated and been caught. So any of the
inter-faculty betting was null and void now. No one had placed bets
on cheating; just as no one would have been silly enough to predict
that that Snape child would have tried his little stunt.What were these people
teaching their children? Cheating, theft, attempting to resurrect a
Dark Lord…did anyone have any common sense left? The British
citizenry, based on these emissaries, seemed to be as corrupt as they
came.Sirius wondered what
other horrors they'd discover before these Chosen were fully tested
and vetted.He walked back to the
door, let in the Chosen, and briefly explained that Lisa had left the
program. He'd leave it to Harry to decide whether a fuller
explanation was needed.





--------




Harry and the Magic FactoryChapter 12A/N: Now that the Tom
Riddle plotline is mostly done, it's time to get started with the
next set of problem characters. Enjoy!X-c-X-c-X-c-XWhat was Harry
attempting to do? He knew this question would come up very soon when
he sat down with the goblins. They'll been brushing closer and
closer to this very question for a few years now, but they were a
cautious race when not directly engaged in warfare. They'd keep
the peace as long as they could, then they'd utterly descend into
warfare.So, what was Harry
trying to do?He could say he was
attempting to rebalance the corruption. He could also say he was
awarding the punishment that others deserved. He was holding the
scales of justice. In truth, his motivation wasn't anywhere near
as pure and altruistic. He was actually looking out for his
interests, for the interests of the Potter Estate.Harry was going to
stamp out all the most visible forms of corruption within wizarding
Britain so that he and his people could be left to themselves. They
had a long-term plan and didn't need the annoyance that Dumbledore,
Snape, Wilmot, Hector Marchbanks, or the entire Ministry of Magic
would provide.This was to be the
opening salvo in a war, a very quick, brutal war.That was something the
goblins could understand and respect. It was self-interest and it
wouldn't be bloody, but it would be twice as effective as spilling
blood.More allies.Fewer enemies.More wealth for
everyone involved.Harry walked away from
the Potter School, where the Chosen were still working on their
exams, save the one who had resorted to cheating. It was a short
walk to the small, almost innocuous building that housed the Potter
Trust. Potter owned and Goblin run, a rather unique hybrid.Tonight, in the
darkness, the chief goblin of Gringotts, Ragnok, was 'visiting'
the facility. In actuality, it was one of his once monthly visits so
he could say 'hi' to Harry and, perhaps, stutter his way to
asking the kinds of questions that the goblins really wanted
answered.To be honest, Harry
knew that his small branch of Gringotts had the smallest staff of any
of their branches, but also the greatest profits. And that was after
Harry had negotiated with them extensively to reduce their rates. 
The building was already built and the land provided before the
goblins even got wind that the Potter Estate had its own bank.The secret to the
goblin success here was using muggle techniques. People could
arrange for underground vaults, but witches and wizards were
encouraged to use a standard account, meaning that all gold was
pooled together so that Gringotts and the Potter Trust could lend it
out. Families that opted for the standard account received interest
payments four times per year. Families who opted for just a vault
account had the benefit of "negative interest" or paying for the
privilege of storing their wealth underground.Gringotts had made
millions of galleons in the last seven years through lending out
parts of this pooled wealth. And each and every witch and wizard
received sizable interest payments, plus access to their original
deposits. It was faster, simpler, and a much nicer experience.The problem for the
goblins was that they hadn't liked the idea from the start. So
they hadn't objected to an exclusivity provision that Harry had
insisted upon: "Gringotts Worldwide may not utilize any of the
processes, spells, or practices unique to the Potter Estate branch
for twenty five years; and only then upon payment of a royalty to be
agreed upon by both sides."The goblins wanted that
rule reversed. They'd wanted it changed within a year of their
taking control of the Potter Trust. But Harry wasn't budging. Not
yet. Not until something important happened. They wanted to be able
to introduce pooled resourcing so they could expand their lending
profits. They wanted to be able to copy the building design and
security procedures in use at the Potter Trust: no dragons needed
because a series of security spells, like the Fidelius and others,
that changed their password phrases and tokens daily to ensure no one
could enter the vault area without going through four layers of
goblin authentication.Harry walked into the
small conference room just away from the tellers. The goblin he
expected was there; but there were seven additional goblins Harry
hadn't expected. It seemed the goblins had come with a full
negotiation team and without the courtesy of forewarning.So Harry stopped in his
tracks, refused to speak, and did not greet any of the goblins with
word or gesture or glance. It was a nuanced sign that Harry was very
annoyed with them.Both sides went ten
minutes without any motion or speech. Finally Harry grew tired of
this game. He reached into his trouser pocket and pulled out a sheet
of parchment. He conjured up a Muggle style pen with a fancy tip. 
Then he started writing the formal language that would sever the
goblin's role in the Potter Trust. If he finished the statement,
and signed it, the goblins would have but a week to end their work
and remove their presence. Harry was halfway through the floral
language when Ragnok figured out he'd lost the negotiation before
anyone had said a word.The short, leathery
goblin stood up. "Please stop, Mister Potter. Everyone else,
please leave us now. I must offer my apologies; I was rude."The head of Gringotts
Worldwide never apologized. Never. For him to do this today
indicated that he was actually willing to breach protocol; that he
was terrified enough or needful enough to go off the scriptbooks.Harry paused in his
writing as the disgruntled, unneeded goblins left the small
conference room."What was your
purpose, Ragnok?"The goblin hesitated
before speaking. It meant he was struggling or making up a lie. "I
wanted to negotiate your permission to replicate the success of the
Potter Trust."Harry let the lie slip
for a moment. He wanted to remind Ragnok of a few things. "The
first time we met, I hope you remember, I was barely ten. And some
of my friends came to me and told me that a goblin demanded to meet
me and demanded to establish a bank to house all the wealth I'd
drained from the Diagon Alley branch. What was it? Sixty percent of
all the liquid wealth that had been housed there? The Death Eaters
were a well-funded lot, it seems. And so I met with you; you ignored
me and tried to talk with Sirius Black instead. You listed your
terms: we'd give you the land and a permanent lease, we'd pay you
an annual fee for taxing your patience in addition to the standard
account holder fees you'd be charging. Then we walked away. Never
had anyone do that, right? Then we sent you our terms: you'd use
the building we'd already built, you'd use our process, you'd
act as the middleman for loaning out Potter Family funds to those who
wanted to build houses or start businesses in the Village, you'd
reduce your fees to a reasonable level and start paying interest on
money in the loan pool. Remember who won that negotiation? Remember
who has won every negotiation between us?"Ragnok was scowling and
his sharp teeth were visible."Try a stunt like
this again and we will kick you out without a regret. I'd rather
work with you and your kind, though, as long as you treat me and the
citizens here with respect. And ambushing me is not respectful. 
Neither is lying. So, Ragnok, why are you really here?"It took Ragnok four
tries before he finally came clean with his real reasoning. "Almost
since the day the ink dried on our contract, I and other of the
goblin elders have wondered why you are doing these things? Hiding
out, building schools and businesses, working with muggles and
goblins…"Harry smiled. Honesty
from a goblin was in somewhat short supply. He was glad to recognize
that he was right about what the goblins really wanted. They wanted
information, enough understanding to feel as if they were
participating. Maybe this was the reason they'd shared their
seer's divinations; tit for tat, priming the pump to be able to get
this kind of information out of Harry.So, Harry launched into
his story. "My story starts fifty to seventy-five years in the
future. Then we'll jump back to the recent past…."Ragnok wanted a clear
answer, but he was going to have to suffer through this energetic
human. The damned boy – no, young man – had more wiles than even
the legendary Rasptang. That goblin's feats in negotiation hadn't
been matched in the four hundred twelve years since his passing. 
This Harry made Ragnok feel like a small goblin still suckling from
his mother."…so in the
predictable future, all of humanity will know about magic. But it
will take a lot of time and resources to ensure it happens slowly,
responsibly, and safely for us and for them. It's been eight to
eleven hundred years since the greater parts of human civilization
were actually aware we existed, so we can't just stand up one day
and start shouting…"The ancient goblin had
listened carefully and asked respectful questions. Then he asked
about this whole stunt with these children from the British magical
community. "If your goal is for the whole world to know, why are
you futzing around with these wizardlings?""First we're
revealing the existence of the Potter Estate to parts of the magical
community. That's the reason we've done this highly publicized
Apprenticeship Program; what the folks out there call the Chosen. It
would have been easier just to silently invite them in, the
worthwhile ones, at least, but we need to get people used to our
existence…"It was well past
midnight before the meeting ended. Ragnok was bewildered, afraid,
confused, and had the smallest touch of hope flickering in his chest.
 What had he said? "We're going to bring back the magic to the
entire world, not just keep it locked away for witches and wizards…
 Non magical folks will have access to our medicines, our views of
history, our resources in solving problems…."The boy Harry was next
to insane, but he was a visionary. And his ideas could make profits
like no other wizard in history. It would give the goblins much to
think on.X-c-X-c-X-c-XIt had to be past
midnight. George Weasley was blinking rapidly and repeatedly as he
moved through a series of relatively simple questions – half of
which he didn't understood.It seemed the test was
alternating muggle science questions with advanced questions in
magical geography and other fields. George had never taken muggle
chemistry or history or geometry and his understanding of the greater
part of the magical world was very small; why didn't they teach any
magical geography or ethics or philosophy at Hogwarts? He was
rapidly coming to understand he'd need to learn about muggles, and
the wider wizarding world, to fit in here at the 'Magic Factory.'
 But, if it meant learning pranks from the true masters, George was
willing to do it."430. The engorged
plecknia fish is very useful in several magical fields. Describe the
shape and appearance of the fish. Identify the eight river sections
where the fish can still be found today. How is this fish used in
potions, warding, and light rituals? Identify specifically the
reaction when engorged plecknia bones are added to fresh, warm dragon
blood."George blinked a few
times. Hagrid had never even covered the first kind of fish in his
classes. But, for some reason, that fish's name seemed familiar to
him. And the clue about the dragon blood…oh, George remembered. 
The fish's bones became invisible when exposed to dragon blood,
damned useful in building very secure temporary wards. The keystone
of the ward would be impossible to find if it was inscribed in one of
the plecknia bones before it was saturated in the dragon blood. 
George started writing. He yawned once then flicked over to the next
question. His tired body perked up when he read it."431 (final
question). Identify three subjects you have not had formal training
in, but would like to study in further depth."Odd question. But it
wasn't too hard. The problem was limiting himself to three.Fred was also yawning. 
The current question was a killer: history, ancient wizarding
customs, and laws. None of it was interesting in the slightest to
Fred."447. You have been
invited to a dinner gathering in the Fall of 1922. You are attending
without a partner, but the other eight guests are all partnered up
and are the parents of your former classmates. All of them are
involved in education or the Ministry of Magic. Identify three
historically appropriate subjects for conversation at the party. 
Identify the appropriate clothing you should be wearing to a
pureblood party when you have left school and not yet begun a formal
apprenticeship. Assume that one inebriated guest insults your
family: discuss your available options for seeking redress. Identify
the appropriate protocol for leaving the party before any of the
other guests."Fred sighed and started
trying to salvage something out of the question. He didn't have
the slightest idea why the year 1922 was important; he knew, but did
not understand why, that date was the most important part of the
question. Still, he knew bits about the pureblood customs. His
mother had drilled that much into him, coming from the Prewitt family
as she did. But the history components, bah! And all Fred could
think of was challenging the drunken idiot to a duel.Maybe it was good for
partial points."448. Explain
briefly the history behind the periodic table of elements. Explain
briefly how elements are arranged on it and why it is of use in
muggle chemistry."George wrote, "No
clue.""449 (final
question). You have the opportunity to study three areas of Muggle
knowledge. Which ones do you pick and why?"Fred blinked a few
times. He kept stumbling over the phrase 'final question.' Was
this test finally over? Fred felt like his brain had been removed,
pan fried, doused with bourbon, and then thrown back into his skull –
more than once. Triple fried brain with a side of panic and terror.Fred and George
finished first, almost at the exact same time. But it wasn't long
until Colin Creevey finished and then collapsed against his desk. 
God only knows if any of them managed to pass any of it. Now they
all knew why Harry had goaded them into taking the test. He'd
wanted all of them to be fully prepared to admit their ignorance.Fred and George both
felt ignorant. But they also had hope…and excitement. It would be
nice to know more, so they could craft more and more elaborate
pranks. Both were independently hoping they'd done well enough not
to be totally disgraced and packed away like rotting hunks of meat.They both wanted to
stay now. They both wondered when they'd find out if they could.X-c-X-c-X-c-XSeverus Snape was
scowling. It was nearly a permanent scowl at any point in time, but
it was especially pronounced right now. His only son and heir was
off with some Potters somewhere – and Dumbledore had more or less
forced Bracus into going.So Severus poured
himself into the one thing he loved: concocting experimental potions.
 He was at his private research laboratory in the small potions
development company he'd founded after the war with the money Albus
had given him.Albus had paid well for
Severus' activities. However, Albus Dumbledore's expectations
for services rendered never quite ended. Severus was still teaching
at that blasted school – which wasn't a complete waste of time,
it did allow him first pick of the more gifted potions students, of
course – but now his own son had been forced into some kind of
indentured servitude, into spying on these damned Potters.Severus slowly poured a
thin stream of doxy blood into his cauldron. The mixture changed
from a vivid orange into a light lavender color. It was almost
stable enough for the final two ingredients. But it would take
reheating before they could be added. Severus set a small potions
timer for twelve minutes. He set a self-stirring spoon inside the
cauldron and set it for one rotation every thirty seconds, just
enough to keep the whole mess from burning or scorching.Snape picked up the
paper he'd half read that morning. More drivel about the Chosen:
Blaise Zabini and Cormac McLaggen had been expelled for unexplained
reasons. It was quite the black eye. Snape suspected Cormac of
doing something stupid (but not brave), like a halfwit Gryffindor,
and Blaise of doing something sneaky and yet still getting caught.But what news of his
son, Bracus? There was nothing out of that mysterious Potter
encampment. And the mission Bracus thought he was on…the boy would
be doing some dangerous stuff if the opportunities presented
themselves. Would he be sneaky and cunning enough? Probably not. 
Bracus still tended to overestimate his own abilities and
underestimate everyone else.Snape hated being a spy
now – his targets were vastly different now, no longer Death
Eaters. Now Albus made Severus join up with various ghastly
pureblood supremacy groups so they could be monitored. None of the
people Severus had met possessed an ounce of brains, but stupid
people could still be dangerous.He hated that his son
had been brought into spying. He loathed Albus for sending his son
out in this way. Snape just hated the world at this moment in time.Snape looked up when he
heard the light chime indicating someone had arrived at the
facility's apparition point. Who would be coming inside so close
to Christmas? Snape unlocked the door to his lab. It could be his
son, maybe, or one of the employees. Or…It was Albus. His long
beard preceded him into Snape's laboratory.But this Albus was
smiling, smirking, and very, very pleased. "They've finally
agreed to meet with me."It took Snape a few
minutes of probing to determine that Albus meant 1) that the Potter
Family people had finally responded to one of his quarterly letters
and 2) that Albus was already plotting how he would turn the meeting
into a relationship, a relationship into a form of control. Albus
was a master of extending favors and then drawing on a simple slight
obligation for years, if not decades. The man hadn't dominating
British politics for forty-plus years by being a forgiving, easy
going grandfather."I'm going to find
out how they disappeared for so many years. And I'm going to try
to find out if they had anything to do with the disappearance of all
those Death Eaters. Not even the goblins at Gringotts know – or
will say – what happened to them. The only thing we do know is
that none of the family lines have expired or else their family seats
in the Wizengamot would have disappeared…"Snape was listening to
this drivel with a caustic regard. Albus was spinning more of his
tales. It made no sense, any of it. Snape had been the one to
deliver the overheard partial prophecy to the Dark Lord. He'd also
been the first one to determine who the prophecy might concern –
although he'd kept that information to himself for a long time. He
knew that the Dark Lord had set out that night on a 'mission of
extreme importance.' So, there was no way that Lily, James, or
their tiny little Harry could have survived that evening. Snape put
his money on some of the Death Eaters appropriating the Potter name
and going into hiding after the apparent fall of Voldemort.Snape corrected
himself. It was no longer the 'apparent fall' as the Dark Mark
had finally completely faded from his arm. Something had happened
very recently to end his connection with his followers: was he
actually dead?Of course, Snape had
shared none of this with Albus Dumbledore. Snape worked for the man,
took his money from Albus' coffers, but he did not trust the
ancient warlock. No one in their right mind trusted that silver
tongued devil."…so, Severus, my
boy, we can finally put to rest all these conspiracy theories, all
these rumors, once your boy Bracus returns. He'll know who these
Potters are and what they're doing…""Have you heard
anything about Bracus? Has he used his portkey?"Albus shook his head. 
"Have you received any news?"Snape picked up the
paper and pointed to the article about Zabini and McLaggen. "Not
about my son, nothing. But have you spoken with them, Albus?"The old wizard nodded
once and frowned a bit. "First thing I did this morning, actually.
 Poked around inside both their minds. Strangest thing I've ever
seen. Haven't been obliviated or anything, but they can't talk
about what they saw there. I also can't open up those memories,
nor any memories from before they went to see that 'Magic Factory.'
 Someone's merged privacy charms and memory charms together. 
Dastardly magic…"Anything that kept
Albus away from his answers he labeled dastardly or dark magic. The
only reason he hadn't pushed for the banishment of occlumency was
that he was such a strong legilimens."Any idea why these
Potters are coming forward now? This reeks of a publicity stunt,"
Snape said."Yes, very public. 
I've long suspected they invited other folks to work with them. 
You know, those folks who'd disappear for a year then reappear
clutching an enormous sack of gold? Plus, I think they're poaching
our Muggleborns. We've only had five such students in the last
seven years. I don't even know how they're doing it, really…"Severus rolled his
eyes. He could care less about the mudbloods. If the Potters were
taking them, it was rather decent of them. Perhaps Hogwarts could
finally be a worthwhile institution."…I think it's
time to ask the Ministry to take a serious look into these Potter
Emporiums. Drop a word to Cornelius. Maybe he'll ask that awful
Dolores Umbridge to trump up some charges; woman's hated the Potter
Emporium for years. Loathes house elves like you wouldn't believe.
 Then we can work these Potter folks from both sides. Ministry
pressuring them, but then I'll be the other side, the kind,
friendly side, when we meet in two weeks…"That sounded like a
model Albus plan. Put someone in an impossible situation, then ride
to the rescue with a stupid half-smile on your face. It sounded
exactly like how Albus had secured Snape's services, too. Snape
had been apprehended at the scene of a triple murder in Kent, but
Dumbledore had been the one to walk into the interrogation suite. 
And when Snape walked out, he was in Dumbledore's employ with a
partial pardon in his hand."Be careful, Albus,
they've evaded your attentions for more than fifteen years now. 
I'd say whoever they are, they have a lot more going on for them
than you imagine."Snape tried not to
underestimate his enemies, not since he'd misjudged both Tom Riddle
and Albus Dumbledore so badly. No, Snape was not misjudging the
Potters this time. He was looking at their only obvious assets in
the wizarding world and making his plans based on those solid
observations."…nonsense,
Severus. Whoever they are, they're interested in business. 
They'll be interested in keeping their business going. If the
Ministry is bothering them, they'll be amenable for help from other
quarters, you know. Businessmen are sensible, reasonable people…"It was moments like
this that Albus revealed his similarities with muggle gangsters and
magical dark lords. He really was vicious and cunning, but he kept
his grandfatherly patina in place at the same time. Deadly viper,
Snape thought. And then he scowled harder.Instead of arguing
further when Dumbledore would only ignore his counsel, Snape stood up
and moved back to his experimental potion. He dropped in the sliced
Ashwinder eggs and then, a few moments later, a stream of Peruvian
vipertooth venom."Powerful looking
poison, there, Severus. What's it for?" It was easy to forget
that Dumbledore knew his potions almost as well he as did. An
apprentice to the alchemist Nicholas Flamel. One of the few to have
ever seen the Philosopher's Stone.But this substance
wasn't for prolonging human life. No, it would be poisoning house
elves, like the Potters' own. Like only the Potters own. But
Snape kept that part of his elaborate revenge plan to himself. "New
kind of stain remover, Albus. Toxic stuff, but this is what we'll
use to clean those ancient estates when the orphans finally come of
age and you can unseal those homes for them."Snape knew all about
Dumbledore's creative financing methods. "Borrow" money from
war orphans. Keep the orphans away from their estates and ancestral
homes until they reach their majority. Then get them to sign off
what was done in their names before releasing the remaining pittances
left back to the orphans.Albus was brilliant
when it came to tactics like that. But Snape liked to remind Albus
that he, the finest Potions Master in the land, knew exactly who and
what Dumbledore was.Dumbledore twittered
along in his excited, half-sensible comments for another ten minutes.
 Then he left Snape to a quiet, solitary Christmas vacation spent in
his lab. And it would have remained quiet had not a house elf popped
in silently and left a short letter from the Potter Estate on Snape's
desk.It wouldn't be found
until early the next morning. That letter, in two parts, half from
his son and half from some blasted 'healer' the Potters employed,
would ignite Snape in ways nothing ever had.





--------




Harry and the Magic FactoryChapter 13X-c-X-c-X-c-XDecember 24, 1997Sirius Black stepped
into the boy's dormitory at eight o'clock in the morning. The
Chosen had had a few hours to recover from their exhausting tests. 
But the second day was upon them.Practicals!Today a number of folks
from the Village would probably come watch the testing. It was
likely to be fairly entertaining at times. Watching people brew
potions or perform lists of spells was fairly boring, but usually the
device generated up some very interesting little tasks. Group fights
or complex warding scenarios or handling of unusual magical
creatures. Stuff like that. And the practical testing was always
held behind the Potter School – even in the rain, when a magical
tent and weather charms would be used – so that they could be
public. Citizens should be proud of the skills that others were
learning.So Sirius set to his
first task. "Oy, you lot, wake up, WAKE UP NOW. Breakfast starts
in fifteen minutes. Tests resume at nine. Be there or be gone!"Sirius was laughing to
himself as he saw five bleary-eyed boys, with their hair flying in
every direction, wake up and attempt to start moving.He hoped the girl's
proctor was having better luck with Susan Bones and Luna Lovegood.This was all very
valuable experience, of course, since these were merely the first
group of Chosen. The American crew – nineteen in all – would be
invited over in two months. Then the Chinese, then the Russian, then
the French, the Bulgarians and Germans, and the other countries. And
with some of the later groups of Chosen, Sirius had heard that Harry
was planning to bring in Muggles and squibs. The Muggles would
already know something about the magical world, probably from having
magical siblings. But, that was a kind of revolution in and of
itself."Let me explain today
a bit. It'll be shorter and harder than yesterday…"The five male Chosen
groaned."Today you'll be
performing practicals based on what your results from yesterday said.
 We want to confirm your theoretical understanding by having you
demonstrate some of what you know. Generally that means you'll be
producing two to five potions, going through a number of spells
you've learned, tasks related to creatures and plants, designing
and implementing wards, all sorts of things. Usually some of the
tasks are quite a lot of fun – for you and definitely for your
audience…"This drew more groans. 
The idea of being watched by 'spectators' while being examined
didn't sit well."So, you have less
than an hour. Potions are usually up first, so dress for that. Then
you can take the work robes off. Be sure to bring dragon hide
gloves, but we'll supply the cauldrons."Here everyone looked
sheepish."Well," Sirius
said, "I guess we'll be supplying the work robes and the gloves,
too…"Less than one hour
laster, the remaining Chosen were gathered behind the Potter School. 
There were five officials gathered to watch the proceedings, along
with a handful of other people just standing behind the informal
fencing erected.Fred walked to his
assigned potions desk and found he was assigned three potions to brew
first thing: a hair restoring draught (third year at Hogwarts), the
Stopper of Death Elixir (seventh year at Hogwarts, the hardest potion
on the NEWTS curriculum), and the vision inducing potion, Spiritu
Relashky (normally taught only by alchemists in an alchemy
apprenticeship, assuming you could find an alchemist in the first
place). Fred set to work. One easy, one hard, and one impossible
potion in one hour: directions and ingredients included.George had four potions
to brew: a second year brew for hangnails, a sixth year potion to
regrow bones, Amortentia the love potion, and the final, rapid steps
of brewing Wolfsbane. That last one was the very hardest: six
separate distillations combined together precisely with aconite and
other explosively reactive ingredients. It wasn't taught on the
NEWTS curriculum, it was only actually brewed by a handful of Potions
Masters around the world. No pressure there.Luna had two potions to
brew, but nothing she couldn't handle. Neville had four, and none
of them beyond what a fourth-year at Hogwarts could create. Susan
Bones had five to brew, one each it seemed from the Hogwarts
curriculum between second and sixth year. Fenecule Moody had but
two, both ridiculously simple bews. But it was surprising what Colin
Creevey was instructed to brew: a silver-nitrate based poison not
taught at Hogwarts, a British Ministry-restricted truth serum, and a
distillation of the blood of seven magical creatures that was used to
dispel the traces of failed Dark Arts rituals. All very difficult
potions; all well above Colin's usual level of proficiency.Everyone got to
brewing. Even Colin was going well: his poison and truth serum came
together very easily. But the blood he was working with did not seem
to want to cooperate. In fact, midway through mixing the bloods, the
entire unction exploded, the liquid landing on Colin's clothing and
dissolving it. But he didn't mind at all, it seemed. He just kept
on mixing his potions while he blushed a little bit, completely nude
in front of his audience. He didn't don new clothing until he'd
finished his two remaining potions.The reviewers gave the
young man extra points for grace under fire.Fred and George
completed all of their potions, although their hardest ones didn't
look much like the directions they were given; one was a pale pink
when it should have been a shimmering gold. Susan began crying
midway through, but did manage to complete three of the five she'd
been assigned. Fenecule Moody completed both of his, but neither
looked potable. Luna produced mostly acceptable potions. And
Neville didn't manage to detonate a single cauldron.By the time they were
done, and Colin was reclothed, the crowd gathered around the testing
area was larger. The examiners handed out a long list of spells for
each of the Chosen to demonstrate. Offensive magic, defensive
shielding and wards, cleaning and household charms (strangely enough,
Colin demonstrated a very acceptable personal lubrication spell),
post-NEWT level charms, self-transfiguration (George had to turn his
red hair into a nest of snakes), healing of animals and simple human
injuries and maladies, and then they were done. Every one of them
was sweating. Sirius and one of the proctors handed out odd looking
jugs of water, but the small jugs had caps on them. And none of the
Chosen could place the material, aside from Colin, but he wasn't
saying anything. Colin particularly enjoyed pureblooded types get
utterly confounded by even the simplest of muggle inventions, like
the water bottle.Every one of them felt
seriously magically depleted. But it didn't mean the testing was
over.Not in the slightest.George Weasley was
instructed to enter a small wooden room stationed off to the side of
the testing area. Before he walked in, he saw the telltale signs
that the space had been altered and enlarged. It also seemed to have
a flexible transparency charm embedded into it. When he stepped
inside, low lights flipped on and the door behind him sealed up. He
saw a fragment of parchment floating in midair. At the top was a
kind of counting device, counting down from five minutes. George
read quickly.You are about to be in
a combat situation with four level 2-trained witches and wizards
(meaning they've passed their basic competency but have not yet
begun mastery studies) along with three unknown creatures. You know
when your opponents will be arriving. You also know that more
reinforcements will arrive to assist you in five minutes. What do
you do in your five minutes of solo survival time to ensure maximum
safety for yourself and maximum damage to your enemies? Please
demonstrate knowledge of non-lethal offensive dueling techniques in
addition to at least three types of defensive measures. Assume at
least one of the creatures is heavily magic resistant. Assume none
of the witches or wizards are trained in mind magics or necromancy."Holy shit," George
screamed. It was like that goddamned question on the test from
yesterday. But this was harder. True, he had more time to prepare,
but he had more wizards to defend against and longer to hold them
off."Holy shit." But
he didn't stop there. He decided to try out the answer he'd
plotted yesterday. He started to cast the protection ward, the one
that would prevent spells from entering or exiting the sphere
surrounding and protecting George. But George realized he needed to
anchor it to something strong, the damned thing had to last five
minutes. He tied the ward onto four different small pebbles he
found. To destroy the ward now, someone would have to realize that
these innocuous pebbles were something important. In the thick of
combat, who would look at rocks? George even stooped down and
partially buried one of the ward protection pebbles.Then he cast more than
one spell on himself: the Air Bubble Charm, plus several types of
shields that would overlay with the Bubble Charm. Then he released
the Noxious Nettle potion into the rest of the area. Then he began
transfiguring small pebbles into large stones to surround the spell
protection sphere. And he began setting up layers of protective and
offensive wards.When the timer on top
of the floating parchment ticked down, George felt he was ready for
pretty much anything.Then he saw and felt
what this 'magic resistant' creature was, as promised in the
question. These crazy witches and wizards had brought a monstrous
dragon.It was a test, George
knew, but he felt like he was going to die.His brother, Fred, was
enjoying none of the fear and peril his older twin was. No, Fred was
feeling only intense joy at his first project on this practical
testing day.His question had also
been very similar to one he'd seen on his written test. Fred found
it very amusing that he'd get a chance to try out his proposed
solution to the best test question he'd ever read."Use the next thirty
minutes to design and execute a prank against the spectators of this
round of testing. Please be sure to utilize at least three different
potions (from the 14 varieties provided), three muggle (or
nonmagical) means, two different warding schemes, one conjuration or
transfiguration, and one forced shouting or singing charm. Points
awarded for originality or inducing laughter or embarrassment out of
the spectators. Do not aim to injure or maim any of the spectators. 
Points lost for broken bones, blood loss, or other injuries. Note
bene: Do not go easy on the spectators. They all know that the
practical testing involved pranking and that the focus of this
testing is usual the spectating crowd. Seeing pranks is one of the
major reasons they attend. Let 'em have it!"It was all beautiful
music to Fred's ears. Permission to prank, plus a willing field of
prank testers. Yes, Fred could really come to enjoy this.He opened the box
containing his supply of different potions. Yes, some very decent
stuff in here: truth serum, projectile vomiting potion, hair color
changing, toenail growth serum, the hump backed potion, the Potion of
Babel (or one that makes people conversing with each other unable to
speak in the same language)… My, my, this was going to be fun.Fred moved on to how to
keep everyone in place: what wards to use. Then he began to think
about what kind of story he'd want to pull off. He wanted to make
a good impression today, so he decided to go full out. Maybe he'd
made them all spectators and participants at a Muggle bull fight? 
Transfigure something into a bull, have them all running around,
taunting it…all the while, some of them were changing in shape or
color, speaking in tongues, while others loudly commented
(truthfully) how stupid they all looked… Yes, it could really
work. Now, how to coat them all with the potions? Maybe a
muggle-style slingshot?Fred was having the
time of his life.Luna Lovegood, dreamy
as always, was performing her practical in divination. She had
rather pointed comments to make as she read tea leaves. Mostly she
accurately explained about people's sex lives—and then added her
own commentary to either encourage or discourage their actions. 
"Yes, please be nice to the mollusks you meet. They're not
people and they are rather squishy, but they do have some powerful
muscles to clamp down on your more tender bits…" That was but
one of her tamer readings. By the blushing and vigorous denials the
reviewers were seeing from her 'customers' they knew Luna was
hitting her comments spot on.Still, it was rather an
ordeal to listen to.Fenecule Moody was
doing his practical in Magical Zoology. He'd mastered the
flobberworms, but was having a rather tough time with Cornish pixies.
 They rather enjoyed trying to filch his wand.Colin was enjoying his
practical in Magical Botany. Susan Bones was rather terrified about
having to duel an unknown opponent for ten minutes, but she hadn't
let any of her spell injuries stop her yet.Neville Longbottom was
having rotten luck as he attempted his practical in business and
wizarding customs. His job was to negotiate a mortgage from a
goblin. So far the goblin had secured the rights to Neville's
first three children and hadn't offered any more than forty-seven
galleons as a loan.The audience was loving
it. It was like a carnival where the unsuspecting did wonderful
things – or failed wonderfully. Even when Fred launched the first
prank of the day, they were still enjoying themselves. Some found
themselves proclaiming, loudly, their undying love for various other
members of the audience. Others were attempting to taunt a
transfigured bull. Others were singing loudly in a dozen different
languages; they were singing, badly, the words to the Hogwarts school
song, it appeared. And George Weasley joined the crowd, in his fire
singed clothing, just to be a part of the prank. He'd finished his
task, barely, but couldn't stand not being part of a first rate
joke.As the day progressed,
and the Chosen moved from station to station, everyone enjoyed
themselves. The audience most of all.X-c-X-c-X-c-XSeverus Snape woke at
six. By six seventeen, he was screaming like the world was ending. 
By six twenty-two he had floo'd to his ancestral home, Prince
Manor, and blasted the name of his son, Bracus, off the family
tapestry."We won't have any
filthy squibs in this family." He muttered over and over again.He was still clutching
the letter he'd found on his desk. He's ended up dragging the
thing with him nearly the whole day without realizing it.It was short:Dear Severus,I did something foolish
and got myself injured at the Potter Estate. I've been in hospital
now for a while. I feel like I'm getting better, but I will be
here a while longer they tell me. I'm sorry I dishonored the
family by being so reckless.Your Son, BracusDear Mister Snape,My name is Healer
Wycross. I have been caring for your son since he attempted to steal
a cursed object and wound up possessed by a powerful, vengeful
spirit. The ritual to expel the possessing spirit showed that the
spirit had wrapped itself around your son's magical core. The act
of expulsion rid your son of the possessing spirit and also seems to
have shattered his magical core. It remains damaged now after a full
day of observation. We do not know if it will be restored or if your
son will be without the use of magic after his recovery. We do hope
for the best. At this time, I cannot offer to transport your son to
you due to his sensitive condition. However, I will be glad to share
any words of support you may have for your son. Please address any
letter you care to send in your son's name. We will send someone
by to collect it once you've written it.In the healing arts,Healer WycrossSeverus returned with a
vengeance to his experimental potion, the one he'd designed to
poison only house elves. He wished he had one to test it on. But,
he'd have to run a live test instead. After spending most of the
entire day finishing three more batches of the stuff, he bottled up a
half dozen flasks. The Potter Emporium on Diagon Alley would still
be open for another hour. It wasn't too late to start with his
revenge tonight.It was only as Severus
moved toward his fireplace to floo to Diagon Alley that Severus
realized he'd been clutching that horrible letter all day long. He
threw it to the floor then and burned it. Then he burned the ashes. 
It was a hateful thing.He'd already planned
revenge against the Potters and now he had even more reason. They'd
made his son a squib. The rotten lie they'd told about his son
stealing a cursed object. Those monsters had captured his son
through this stunt – which Albus had somehow conspired with – and
destroyed his magic.Snape wanted to cry. 
But trained mercenaries didn't cry. Snape sold his services to the
highest bidder – or the most powerful, in the case of Albus. But
now this job was a personal one. Snape was going to begin exacting
some vengeance for destroying his family.He arrived at the
Potter Emporium. It was the first time he'd ever set foot inside
something labeled with the name Potter. But today we did it for a
good cause. His son was dead to him. He'd have to find a new
wench and be forced into carnal relations with her. It was a good
thing his last wife had been so frail. She'd had the good sense to
die in child birth. Severus hoped to find another frail thing, just
strong enough to bear him another son. He could survive having a
woman in his life, assuming it was only for a year or a year and a
half.Severus Snape walked to
the section of books, plucked a few off the shelves and doused them. 
Then he wandered around the store and stuck one in a bin of oranges,
another in a case of packaged meat, and a third on the lowest shelf
of a case of prank items. The elves would have to pick these items
up to return them to their proper places. They'd die around eight
hours after exposure.Snape wandered through
the haberdashery section, plucking up items, dousing them, and
dropping them to the floor. He picked the most expensive assortment
of candies, doused the packaging, set it on the floor and stepped on
it. He quietly worked his way through every department in the
Emporium. He hoped he could kill a dozen or more house elves with
this attack. He'd wait a month before his next one. Maybe he'd
take a quick trip over to Paris to hit the Emporium there. Then he'd
work out a schedule to hit them all, to keep killing off the house
elves until the Emporiums were forced to close or begin employing
witches and wizards.Then Severus would have
new targets.He smiled when he
walked out of the store. All his flasks of poison were empty and the
store would be closed in five minutes. By tomorrow morning, these
wretched Potters, the one's who'd killed his own son by turning
him into a squib, would be down a dozen house elves.Snapes knew guerilla
tactics. They knew how to punch where it hurt. And they knew never
to stop.





--------




Harry and the Magic FactoryA/N: I've been
trying to mix up the serious (plot) stuff with the fun, bizarre
stuff, like the testing. I personally think all the testing is
hilarious, which is why I've spent so much of the last few chapters
on it. That's also the reason I've turned Colin into a bit of a
perv. But I hope you enjoy the mix of fun and serious. BTW, the
duel between Moody and Snape in this chapter tries to mix the two. 
Let's see if you enjoy it!Chapter 14X-c-X-c-X-c-XSeverus Snape really
wasn't acting like a good Slytherin. No, not at all, Alastor Moody
decided. He hadn't been sneaky at all in his attempted attack on
the Potter Emporium. Nor had he looked around to see if anyone had
been watching him."Amateur," Moody
hissed. He was stalking behind this ridiculous Severus Snape in
Digaon Alley.In truth, Alastor knew,
all the Oompahs in the store knew what was going on. As soon as
Severus dropped a poisoned item, one of the elves came along and used
magic to neutralize it. All the Potter Emporiums had sensitive
poison detectors. They'd even managed to collect a pure sample of
the poison. It looked unlike anything they'd seen before, but most
of the individual ingredients were deadly on their own. This was
some kind of super poison. It was worthy of study.All the Potter
Emporiums employed magical and muggle means of surveillance. In
fact, Severus Snape's face, as a suspected but never proven Death
Eater, had been known instantly inside the software.And, finally, Severus
Snape himself – with all his squalling and bitter diatribe – had
forewarned the Potter Estate what he was planning to do. The letter
he'd picked up had been charmed to do several things. First, it
wasn't supposed to leave Serverus' hand until Snape had decided
what to do about his son. The thing hadn't left Snape's hand for
many hours; he hadn't even noticed brewing deadly poisons with only
the use of a single hand.Second, it transmitted
a recording of Snape's words to Healer Wycross. The healer had
dealt with a few cases where Pureblood-types had rejected children
after magical injuries; becoming a squib was definitely in that
category of injuries where a family might reject a child.So Wycross had listened
to everything. And when the words "poison" and "Potter
Emporium" and "house elf" came up, the Healer turned everything
over to Alastor Moody, the Potter Emporium chief of security.Now Moody was walking
silently behind the rapidly departing Snape. Snape was almost
running toward the apparition point where he'd be sure to be free
from all the anti-apparition wards thrown up by the stores. Not a
subtle movement, Snape! Moody had already tagged Snape with two
tracing spells that Moody had developed himself. No one else would
recognize them or be able to dispell them, either.Moody was sure now of
his quarry. The question remaining was what to do with him?He respected the people
he worked with to find out exactly what they wanted to do. Working
for Potters was nothing like working for the Ministry: Potters were
smart, decisive, and made hard, unpopular decisions when necessary. 
That kid could be positively ruthless at times, but never cruel.Moody had been an Auror
for forty years before he met the spell that lost him his eye. Even
though he had his magical eye, and the rest of his body was in good
working order, the Ministry had discharged him on 'disability'
back in early 1981. Ridiculous, of course.Damned Ministry had
been full of stiffs and suits. Didn't appeal to Moody's style at
all. So when he was tossed out, he started up a little collection of
his own. He'd take down Death Eaters when he could find them and
haul them off to a listen makeshift prison he'd created. Ministry
wanted to pardon the bastards. Political idiots.It was a weird night in
early '82 when Moody recognized that two other wizards were
actually stalking the same prey he was. And the two wizards struck
first, captured Dolohov, and then sealed up and hid the man's
estate. Bizarre! So Moody kept an eye on them and other known Death
Eaters. The others disappeared slowly, too, as did their estates. 
On the third 'meeting' Moody made himself known and saw that
crazy Sirius Black and Remus Lupin were taking down Death Eaters. 
Eventually he got the story out of them. After even more soul
searching, Moody decided to offer his services. And, after a year of
working together, Moody formally joined up with the Potter Estate.Those men and women
knew how to take care of a problem. Moody had initially argued
against freeing the captured Death Eaters and performing the
vassalage rite on them. But, like the little boy Potter said, it had
worked like a charm.Now Moody was just
waiting for a decision on this Snape person. Attempting to kill
Oompahs plus his Death Eater background. Moody hopes that Snape
attempted to struggle something fierce when his final moments of
freedom came. Moody was in a bloody spirit.X-c-X-c-X-c-XHarry was seated in a
chair in his small living room. His house was quite small for a
person with many billions of galleons at his disposal, but Harry
really disliked ostentation. A kitchen, two bedrooms, one bathroom,
a long hallway lined with bookshelves, and this living/sitting room. 
There was an almost endless field behind the house where Harry could
go flying or play Muggle-style football. All the comforts, that's
all he needed. It was his home.But he felt angry,
vengeful, and not at all like a good host to the people who were in
his home. He had news to share with them and a decision to make.Harry turned to look at
Draco first. After all, they would be discussing the young man's
formal godfather."Someone launched an
attack aimed at the Oompahs in the store on Diagon Alley. We were
alerted to it in advance and it failed. But it was the most
sophisticated attempt we've ever had. We've tagged the
perpetrator…""Bring him in,"
said Cedric Diggory, one of the war orphans in addition to being a
close friend of Harry's."You're too
concerned about condemning the possibly innocent," said Sirius
Black. "You know our judicial process is as good as it gets and we
never deviate from it. Everyone gets a trial…"Harry held up his hand.
 "There are complications here. Let me explain everything before
we all leap to conclusions." Harry looked over to where his
parents were hovering near the corner of the room. They had just
returned from beyond the veil and were glad to be included. It was a
tough life as a ghost: every moment in the mortal realm had to be
answered with twice as long back behind the veil. So Harry and his
family planned well when they could."The man who
committed the attacks is a suspected, but unproven, Death Eater. We
could never confirm he did more than supply potions to the Death
Eaters…" Here James and Lily Potter began to frown, as did
Alastor Moody. Sirius was holding his anger in check, but Remus
looked like he was ready to transform without even the curse of the
full moon."…but we think he
was involved on the attack at the Diggory home after Tom Riddle
fell…"Harry looked to his
friend Cedric. The kind, and forgiving, Cedric. The healer
apprentice. His friend looked like old mental wounds had just been
reopened. He looked like the mercy he had always attempted to live
by was beginning to crack."…we could never
prove it, however. We know that a fifth man was there, but none of
my vassals saw who it was or heard a voice. The man never removed
his mask and left long before we apprehended the others…"The members of the
Council who were participating did not have such personal ties to
Severus Snape, but they recognized the name and the foulness that
seemed to linger next to him."…he also allowed,
or directed, his son to come to us as a Chosen and spy or sabotage
us. That's why Bracus is still in hospital now. Snape actually
disowned his own son. If we prove Snape to be a Death Eater, and not
just a reluctant spy for the Light side, then I will be sure Bracus
is taken care of…"This was by far the
most controversial thing Harry had yet said. No one had any love for
the whiny, stupid Bracus Snape. But, for some reason, Harry seemed
to have some. He'd held the Council off of punishment and was now
talking about turning over some of whatever they confiscated from
Severus Snape to the undeserving whelp.Harry let the people in
the room vent for a while. They had enough of the facts and
suppositions to debate this out. Cedric seemed immobilized; Harry
hoped it would be helpful for his friend to hear some of the
ludicrous ideas thrown out about Snape. He hoped this wouldn't
change his friend Cedric into one of the bloodthirsty lot that
currently made up his Council. Harry needed more voices for mercy.And it took fifteen
minutes before Harry saw his friend resume his defense of mercy. 
Harry could see the battle Cedric had won inside himself. It hadn't
been easy, but Cedric pretty much ended the debate by saying, "As
one of his likely direct victims, I would like a chance to hear the
man defend his own actions. And that can't happen if you lot rip
out his tongues or fill his lungs with burning embers. Remember,
it's all fun and good to joke about elaborate tortures, but we're
set up differently – and apart – to get away from barbarity of
this sort."Few of the people in
the room, save Harry's parents and Draco, had ever heard such
passion from the last of the Diggorys.It was sad that, even
in this place, people could underestimate each other. Was pride so
deadly at all times?"We will not foul up
our new home with these kinds of stupidities," Harry said. "We
will not remake ourselves into looking like the rest of the British
world or that pitiful Hogwarts… How is it that this Hogwarts place
has succeeded so well in transforming schoolyard bullies into
certified killers within a few years of graduation? Spite,
pettiness, ugliness, hatred, betrayal, jealousy: these are the
emotions of children only. My father and his friends taunted this
horrible man Snape as a youngster and this man, in turn, betrayed
them and caused their deaths. Is this any kind of a society worth
keeping around, I wonder? Were any of your surprised that I would
want to live apart from that kind of place… If that was all that
was possible out of witches and wizards, I wonder if I would show
even the slightest shred of mercy. Cedric is correct. We try
ourselves, our entire society, with everyone who needs justice. And
if we ever do the wrong thing, even a single time, we're just as
bad as Hogwarts and that damned Ministry. Do I need to continue?"The audience inside the
room was shocked. Many of them knew that they only unconsciously
recognized how powerful Harry was, but none of them ever seemed to
remember just how many lifetimes' worth of experience had been
crammed into his head. He was, in effect, a very old soul: patient,
merciful, but never to be doubted or underestimated.When no one objected,
Harry set out the standard plan, but with a few nice touches. "We
will apprehend him tonight. I will go along to ensure there is no
trouble and also to secure all his lands and assets. Constance,"
Harry said, addressing one of the Council members, "could you send
a letter to the goblins about this? We'll need to secure his
assets, his deeds, all that. Standard protocol on questioning. 
Leave him in a cell, no one speaks to him, feed him too often, three
or four sunsets and sunrises per day, screw with his internal clock. 
Make him think a month's passed before I start." Harry stopped
for a second to consider dates and timing. "I'll begin the
questioning on New Year's Day. Anyone else who wants may have a
turn, Cedric first, of course…"What followed was a
more useful discussion. Now it was people trying to figure out how
to inject additional cruelty into the standard protocol. Harry let
them plot and scheme for thirty minutes before he kicked everyone out
save Moody. They were going in now.X-c-X-c-X-c-X"…the dumb bastard
is a Death Eater, I'd wager. So stupid he couldn't even vary
from the standard set of wards all the Death Eaters used. Didn't
keep us out of those other estates, did it?"Alastor Moody was
grouching, but in truth he was back in his favored line of work: Dark
Wizard Hunting. And this one was supposedly a very tricky customer. 
He'd sought refuge from Dumbledore, had insulated himself from the
Ministry, and none of his former Death Eater colleagues could point
to anything specific the man had ever done.But, Merlin, the man
didn't have a lick of common sense. First, his attack on the
Oompahs. Now the security around his home. Ridiculous."I would hope,"
Harry said, "that anyone with a basic proficiency in warding could
do a better job." The 'highly secure Death Eater wards' had
fallen at a glance from Harry. He hadn't even had to tap deep into
his reserves.Alastor led them inside
the small home. His magical eye was surveyed in every direction. 
Dumb, dumb man. There was nothing inside his house, no trip lines,
no monitoring spells.Harry walked behind
Alastor through the entire downstairs. Then he sent his magic
upstairs. "He's asleep, Moody. Want me to really put him out? 
Or do you want to play?"Moody just smiled.Harry rolled his eyes
in the darkness. "Fine, I'll just put up the one-way ward for
you. You can send anything inside, but nothing comes out."Moody was quite
pleased. As yet, Harry was still the only person who could make and
hold that ward. With Harry clutching it, the damned thing would
never fail. Not until Moody had had his fun.For the only thing
Moody hadn't mentioned to anyone was that Moody had taken down
Snape once before. Back in '78. Back before the man had sought
out refuge from Dumbledore. For all the Potter checks and balances,
Moody knew that Snape had very well been a Death Eater. And Moody
wanted a rematch. He wanted it to be fun and drawn out.Moody hadn't had a
good duel – excepting the ones with the Potter kid, where Moody
always lost just like everyone else – in a decade. PSo Moody silently
climbed the stairs while Harry went outside to begin casting the
secrecy wards around this small home. Only someone with Harry's
ridiculous amount of power could cast wards large enough to hide
square kilometers of property. There wasn't much of anything the
boy couldn't do.Moody stood on the
landing and moved silently toward the room. He could see the ward in
place. He could see that the target was still asleep. Moody plucked
a book off a shelf and transfigured it into a short, but still human
sized, cloaked figure. He'd send this bit of transfiguration into
Snape's room to get the fun started.Moody stopped at where
the shielding ward was in place. Then he directed his little cloaked
accomplice to open Snape's door and step inside. Before the thing
was four steps inside, Snape was up out of his bed and flinging
curses."Caeco." That
landed and 'blinded' the transfigured book."Lacero." Snape's
cutting hex missed and was absorbed by his bedroom wall."Expelliarmus." 
Snape sent the book flying.Moody didn't do
anything in that moment. He was waiting to get a look at this
would-be Oompah killer. When he did step into a beam of moonlight,
Moody smirked. The man was a positive troll. Pot-bellied, scarred,
and he still stank – even twenty feet away – of some kind of
bacchanal he'd staged for himself after his 'successful attack.'Moody wished he had the
younger opponent he'd dueled long ago. Fitter and more
challenging.Snape moved toward his
opponent, looking for a wand the entire time. He didn't react much
until he kicked off the cloak and saw that the 'being' inside
obviously was a construct of some sort.Then Snape pivoted,
nearly naked in the moonlight, wearing only dingy, tattered unders,
and started slinging curses."Reducto. Lacero. 
Reducto." He was blowing up his own bedroom. Moody was quite
amused for the time being.Moody pointed his wand
and silently said, "Confundo Bardo." When it struck Snape in his
chest, the man began stumbling and drooling. The curse had
temporarily stripped away any intelligence the man had once
possessed.But Snape fought it. A
minute later he was back to his menacing self.And Snape knew where
the curse had come from. He pivoted toward the opened doorway and
began cursing."Reducto. Concusso. 
Demens. Lacero." Ah, interesting, Moody thought. The curses were
getting darker, but the man's aim was for shit. Demens was the
Insanity Curse, dispellable only by its caster. Nasty piece of spell
creation that one.Moody decided on more
amusement for himself. Snape couldn't penetrate or leave the wards
Harry had erected. So Moody pointed his wand at three spots inside
the wards and said, "Lacerta" three times. Three enormous
lizards shimmered into view. One headed straight for the nearly
naked Snape's toes and feet. Another began to devour the man's
bedstand. And a third began crushing and destroying every stick of
furniture in there. By the time Snape managed to fend all three off
and vanish them, the entire room was in a shambles. And Snape was
working in bare, bleeding feet.Snape moved closer to
the door, trying to school the pain he felt from the splinters and
shards he picked up from the floor with every step. "Cicuta." 
The poisoning curse, lethal within minutes. Snape had definitely
begun using the darkest of Dark Curses."Exustio," Snape
shouted. Inside Out Burning Curse, even more nasty business. It
killed everyone it directly contacted, no countercurse. It even
sailed through most shields. But Harry's ward contained it.Moody pointed his wand
again and said, "Fecifer." Then Snape screamed. Moody had only
ever seen this medicinal charm used once in a formal duel. But the
results had been staggering – and revolting – which explained why
it had been banned from competition use. It was the Bowel Loosening
Charm, beloved of mediwitches and healers; apparently also the bane
of former Death Eaters.Snape, of course,
couldn't control his own muscles at this point. He'd dropped his
wand. And he was beginning to soil himself. He was wailing in
embarrassment and agony. The charm was quite painful even as it was
an effective remedy against a number of intestinal disorders."Corona Serpentia,"
Moody said. Suddently Snape's head was crowned in tiny moving
snakes. None of them were venomous, but the sight was ridiculous. 
Perfect for further infuriating and humiliating this evil man."Esurio." Snape's
wails were even louder now. He was feeling in his mind the far
reaching effects of severe hunger. His mind was now telling him he
hadn't eaten a thing in weeks. He felt completely weak. In fact,
he slumped to the ground immediately, right into his own filth.Through his pain and
anger, Snape found his befouled wand and aimed at the doorway again."Creo Dolor. 
Intereo. Iacio." None of them were Unforgivable. But they were a
hair's breadth away. The Dolor Curse was even more painful than
the Cruciatus, but it was blockable. Intereo killed, but it too was
blockable. It also happens to be faster to say than Avada Kedavra. 
And Iacio was unblockable and much stronger than Expelliarmus. Many
people had died from the wounds inflicted by that curse.Moody had seen the
Iacio coming a mile away and had side stepped it once it breached the
ward.Snape realized he had
failed. He threw up a quick Contego and waited for the worst.Moody had plenty
planned. "Eluvio."A giant crest of water
surged through the room, knocking the seated Severus onto his back
and roiling him around in his own filth."Fodio." This
stinging curse caused Snape to bellow in indignation. He felt like
one of his arse cheeks was likely to fall off."Frigo." This
Moody sent toward Snape's wand hand. And it worked. The wand fell
and was swept away in the dark revolting flood. Snape's hand was
turning blue because of the strength of the Freezing Curse Moody had
used.Moody was down to his
last two spells. "Ineptio." It was far stronger than any other
Confounding Charm. The Fool-Making Hex was nearly unbeatable…as
Snape was now demonstrating. He'd ripped his own souled underwear
off and was swinging them over his head.Finally Moody said the
words necessary to end the battle. "Expugno." Thus Snape was
bound with Moody's personal binding curse. Only Moody and a few
others knew how to remove it. And Merlin save the fool who attempted
to use a Finite on it. It'd end up crushing its target just out of
spite!It took Moody nearly as
long to banish the mess he'd made as the whole battle had. Dirty,
filthy Death Eaters!Moody levitated the
body and moved silently through the hallway. He was outside in a
flash, just in time to see Harry return from his work."Have a good time,"
Harry asked, after examining the naked, bruised, stinking, and soaked
man levitated behind Moody."Time of my life,"
Moody said.Harry rolled his eyes
again. "The wards here are done. Completely sealed. I'll hop
over to his potions research company and seal that off. But you take
him back to the cells below Malfoy Manor. Haven't had any guests
in quite some time, I think."Moody nodded and
disapparated. Moody was already planning his part of the
interrogation. Couldn't ask for a better New Year's present than
to interrogate a Death Eater.





--------




Harry and the Magic FactoryChapter 15X-c-X-c-X-c-XDecember 25, 1997Sirius Black walked
into the dining hall at the Potter School and immediately heard
groans."Why are we taking
tests on Christmas Day?" That was Susan Bones, but it seemed she
was speaking for everyone."Do you believe in
Christianity? At the Potter Estate, some witches and wizards do, but
not many. We actually have a modified seasonal base to our holidays:
New Year, January 1; Fool's Day, April 1; Midyear Day, July 1;
Death's Day, October 1. We have public celebrations and festivals
on each day. In fact, our most important Dueling Tournament is held
on New Year. Perhaps some of you will get to see our finest in
action."That little speech gave
the Chosen a few things to consider. If they weren't Christians,
why did they celebrate Christmas? Hmm…"Well, today is the
last day of testing. And it should be done with quickly. Then, any
of you who wish to remain for the Apprenticeship Program may stay on
until New Year or go back to your world to give your temporary
farewells. You will know by the time you are able to leave today
what your plans for the future will be. The Oral examinations are
very good at helping young minds to decide…"Numerous questions
echoes. 'How do they work?' 'What do we have to know to pass
them?' 'When will we find out how we did on the first two days'
worth of tests?'That last one was the
only one worth answering. Sirius said, "Your Oral examination will
cover the previous parts of your testing. You will learn where you
stand in every field you attempted…. But now let us turn to the
schedule. Colin and Susan will go at eight thirty, three reviewers
apiece, scheduled for two hours. Very standard. Luna and Neville,
hmm, you are to meet with your reviewers at nine, two for Luna, three
for Neville, two and a half hours scheduled. Fenecule, your Oral is
at ten." Here, Sirius' eyes flashed a bit. "They will explain
the situation then. And, the Weasleys, well… This is odd, you
will be sitting in the same Oral, it seems, with five reviewers… 
oh my… for three hours or so." Sirius mumbled a bit to himself
and smiled. "I think you pair will find it fascinating, your
reviewers are a very interesting lot, very."That made Fred and
George just a little bit afraid. Everything labeled 'interesting'
here seemed to be dangerous in some way.They were expecting
some kind of impossible testing, such as 'Mr. Weasley, please
remove your brother's brain and kick it around the room. The other
Mr. Weasley, please begin singing the Hogwarts school song to the
tune of 'God Save The Queen' and be sure not to stop while your
brain is removed.' What they got when they went into the room was
something very different.The strange young Harry
Potter was seated in a chair. His ghostly parents were also there,
as well as that Sirius fellow and the one called Remus Lupin.The female ghost began
to speak once Fred and George were seated. "Thank you for coming,
young men. You did a very nice job with your testing and this should
be more of an educational experience than a terror-inducing one."The others chuckled a
bit, but neither Fred nor George relaxed. Sirius Black picked up a
small sheet of parchment. "No one passed the whole Basic
Competency, of course. No one had enough languages or any
understanding of the Muggle-related subjects. However, of all the
Chosen, you two did the best." Fred and George sighed in relief. 
Sirius had started in on something that sounded very ominous. But
being the best in a lot of bad folks didn't seem so awful."You each passed
three of the subtests, the same three, it seems. Potions, Pranks,
and Charms. You were both pants in Magical History, Ethics,
Astronomy, and a number of other subjects. Fred came somewhat close
to passing his Transfiguration and George showed a remarkable, but
not yet adequate, aptitude for Warding. You two were the most gifted
in Offensive and Defensive Magics, far above your peers from
Hogwarts, with scores that would merit an Outstanding on a NEWT exam.
 However, the level of spell discovery we've had here means your
performance is still subpar, but we all feel you'd both pick up the
new lessons easily…"The male ghost just
nodded. "Yes, it would have been good enough in my days at old
Hoggie, but today… You need to know more spells, cast silently and
wandlessly, and move much faster, much, much faster to survive in
Potter-style dueling… My Harry here is an utter demon; I don't
think anyone has even landed a spell on him in six years now."Fred was more than a
bit confused. They'd done well, but not well enough. What did
that mean? Were they good enough to stay? Were they going to be
able to take on the Apprenticeship Program?Sirius was still
blathering on, but Lily saw what the boys were feeling. "Hold up,"
she said. "All of the Chosen were eligible for the Apprenticeship
Program, regardless of how they did on the Basic Proficiency. 
Assuming they haven't been thrown out for committing some kind of
idiotic crime…I mean how stupid is it to use a knowledge
enhancement potion during a testing session? Did that girl expect no
one to notice?" The ghost sighed. "Like I said, you were
already accepted. That test just let us find out where you were. 
And, in your cases, try to reconcile your mediocre Hogwarts scores
with your very strong performance on a very challenging examination…"Fred and George both
started breathing again.Remus took over the
next part. He started walking them, subject by subject, through
their testing."The pranks both of
you staged during the practical were very good; a mite too elaborate
perhaps, but very good. Both of you were also flagged for very
challenging scenarios in your sections of defense practicals. You
both got five minute survival requirements; and you were both still
standing at the end… One of you had a dragon to battle; one had a
basilisk. You didn't handle the magic resistant creatures well,
not that they were exactly real. But Harry can transfigure and
animate some fiercesome beasties…""That dragon wasn't
the real thing," George shouted.Harry started
snickering. He shook his head. "Sorry.""Biggest sodding
thing I've ever seen in my life. Didn't know it was possible to
transfigure something that huge," George muttered."And that basilisk
had to be twenty or twenty five meters long. It was an epic beast,"
Fred said.Sirius Black joined in.
 "I'm not sure what kind of impression we gave you, but we're
not in the habit of keeping deadly beasts like those chained up in a
cave just to haul them out for examinations…"At that, Fred and
George deflated a bit."So," Remus said,
"could either of you explain your OWLs or NEWTs compared to what we
saw here?"Fred shrugged. George
opened his mouth, then snapped it shut. No one had ever actually
expected them to perform well. Yes, they were expected to
entertain…but they'd never bothered with testing, thinking it
more fun to blow up the cauldron when the examiner wasn't watching
than to worry about their marks. But, they'd both been terrified
about not being able to stay here, so they'd 'applied'
themselves.Now the hard questions
came. Remus asked it again.This time Fred started
off the answer. "No one ever believed us capable of doing more
than making people laugh, so that's what we did. But we also got
pretty damn proficient at our magic. George and I would love nothing
more than to start up a joke shop, you know, putting magic to the
work of entertaining folks…"George took over the
story. "But, now, we see that there's a lot more than magic can
do, you know? All the new things you've been working on here, all
the discoveries or rediscoveries you're trying to make. All your
emphasis on judging people by merit, not by wealth or bloodline or
such rot. Both Fred and I wanted to stay here, wanted it
desperately. So we actually tried on the test you have. I don't
think I've ever thought as hard in my life, you know, and I learned
tons just by trying to work my way through the questions in there. 
Bloody brilliant idea…"Both Fred and George
sounded completely earnest and passionate. The words just flowed. 
Discussions of how far along their plans for a joke shop were, the
tricks and pranks they'd already developed (most of which, Sirius
was happy to note, the Potter Pranks division had already gotten into
advanced stages of testing), and how they were willing to look toward
a new dream."…I always thought
magic was magic, the spells were all written down. I never thought
there was more to discover," Fred said. "But, we don't really
understand much yet, do we? There's more to create and teach than
anyone ever thought…"Then the conversation
turned back to the testing. Fred and George were feeling more
comfortable now."So, how would each
of you have handled a challenge in that little testing shack?"
George asked.Remus said he would
have used disillusionment and transfigured twigs into moving
constructs of himself. He'd have ambushed his would-be attackers
with stealth.Sirius had the opposite
tact. "Offense is the only defense, our Harry here aside. He can
use a defensive spell in such a way that it is offensive at the same
time." Sirius muttered to himself for a moment. "I'd have set
up layers of offensive wards in various spots over the entire area. 
I'd have driven my attackers into them with the force of my attack
and left them bleeding on the ground. I'd have conjured an augurey
to drive off a dragon or a cockerel to attack the basilisk. Since
the constructs were magical, and yes you can tell, then my magical
solutions would have worked…"Lily and James both
passed on answering the question. Neither had used magic in sixteen
years.But Harry, the
seventeen and a half year old, had the most intriguing answer. 
"Well, assuming I was gifted with excellent training and only the
magical core of a single witch or wizard, I would use the 'Sleeping
Beauty' attack. Very simple, very elegant, completely devastating.
 Step one, erect a low-power, short-lasting ward to prohibit magical
travel of any sort over the entire field of battle. Step two, cast
the shielding charm against sleep spells on myself. Step three, cast
a long lasting, maybe three hour or so, ward to force everyone
asleep. It affects all witches and wizards, so long as they're not
leagues more powerful than the caster, in addition to beasts, even
magically resistant beasts. You're not casting the ward against
scales or skin; you're casting it against brains and minds. Step
four, while the opposition is asleep and you're not, remove their
weapons, wands, portkeys, and the like and bind every one of them..."Neither Fred nor George
had ever heard of such a thing, but it was utterly brilliant. "How
do you think up these things," Fred asked."Did you never read
any Muggle fairytales as a kid?" Harry smiled, imp-like. "I get
my ideas from every corner of the world, magical or normal. There's
no good idea I've ever come across that I haven't appropriated
for my own uses in some way."Even Remus and Sirius
seemed shocked at such a simple idea. "Why have I never heard
about this 'Sleeping Beauty' attack before, pup," Sirius asked."No one's ever had
the bollocks before to ask me how I'd solve a challenge like that
one. But I've got a half dozen different strategies for everything
we stage in that room. Quite a few are even simpler and more elegant
than 'Sleeping Beauty'… And, no, I'm not revealing my hand. 
Most of them are designed for me alone to use."Sirius looked like he
had a new challenge to pursue. Remus looked thoughtful for a few
moments. James and Lily smiled and were proud.Now that Harry had
stunned everyone into silence, he took his turn to really talk. "I
have two questions to ask you…"Fred nodded."Are you interested
in coming back on January 1 and beginning with the Apprenticeship
Program?"George sighed in
excitement. Fred wagged his head up and down."Good, excellent,"
Harry said. "I've had high hopes for the both of you since those
first little tests filtered out into the wider world. Again, my
apologies for taking so long to tell you how well you'd done. We
had a little problem with a spirit named Tom Riddle to take care of
first… Now, my next question, do you want to know why we're
doing all of this?"George said. "I
thought you explained yourself… at the Magic Factory place.""We did, but it was
abbreviated. Do you want the whole sales pitch," Sirius asked.Both of the twins
eagerly nodded."We will be revealing
the magical world to the Muggles in the future. It requires a lot of
work to get there, which is part of the reason we've created this
whole thing, all these businesses, this school, all of this research
and attention to producing truly outstanding minds. But I want you
both to understand that we're not doing this just to benefit the
Muggles. No, it is much more important to the witches and wizards of
the world that this happen…."Both twins were
thoroughly confused. How could losing their hiding places, their
secrecy, improve their own lives?"If we don't do
this, the magical world will die, no question."Harry let the room hang
in silence for a few moments."The magical world
has fallen so far behind the muggle one that most wizards don't
even understand that their world will collapse in a few short
decades, maybe less. Witches and wizards insulated themselves to
keep us all safe hundreds of years ago, but they also based the
society on wealth, privilege, and lineage. It's slowly dying; all
these stupid wars killing off our families and our young, all this
hidebound tradition to maintain. Purebloods only breeding with
purebloods, the number of old families shrinks by a few every
generation as there aren't enough mates to go around and no one has
large families any more. People are so concerned with protecting
what they already have that they can't imagine what a future would
look like. The nastiest of the purebloods imagine a future that
looks like the past with even more barbarity added in. Even the most
'forward thinking' contemporary witch or wizard imagines a future
that looks exactly like the present, everyone forever trapped in the
same day repeating itself over and over."No innovation, no
change, no peering into the wider world to witness what is really
happening. Muggles outnumber us by three thousand to one. They've
invented truly wonderful advances: computers, refrigeration,
electricity, instant forms of communication. And they've created
the worst things imaginable. We know that witches and wizards can
stop bullets, if they're properly trained, and heal knife wounds
and the like…but we're vulnerable to other weapons, to bombs, to
radioactivity, to chemical weapons. And we don't even know it. 
The nonmagical world has progressed beyond our comprehension; but we
enjoy our blissful ignorance and pretend to believe we know what
they're about."Our complacency is
killing us off; and when we finally realize our shrinking numbers,
we'll begin making mistakes, begin accidentally and thoughtlessly
revealing ourselves. And then the nonmagical, unprepared for our
existence, will strike us all down out of fear. It'll be a bloody
battle, lots of the nonmagical will die, but their numbers will
overwhelm all of us eventually…. Or maybe they'll be smart,
maybe they will research us first, create a totally ruthless version
of dragon pox that has no cure and infects no Muggles. Or rely on
our innate selfishness: attack wizards clan by clan assured that none
of us would help the others. In any case we lose. Unless, unless we
prepare. We could do all of this the right way. Reveal ourselves,
have an honest counterbalance to our arrogance and complacency…"Fred and George had
never heard anyone speak like this. It was making their brains hurt.
 The man who was saying all of this was clearly younger than they
were. And he was either a genius or completely insane. And he had
managed to convince a thousand other adults to participate in some
way. And he had done some incredible things; he wasn't asking for
anything, no, he was offering to help further their education in the
things they wanted to study.Could anyone really be
this generous?"The plan will take a
long time to execute, but it's really fairly simple. There are six
tracks we need to complete before we can begin the final, the seventh
part of the plan. We've already begun to intertwine our economies.
 The Potter Estate has significant holdings in a variety of
industries worldwide; we're becoming the number one producer of
vegetables throughout the world at this moment. People may ignore
politics, or polite rules of society, but even the dumbest bigot
among us, or among the nonmagical, responds to economic
self-interest. We don't need to change laws to do this; we need to
have enough economic control over their world that, if push comes to
shove, we can calm everyone down again."We have also begun
working on technological convergence of our many ways of living. 
Potter Technologica is devoted to this, bringing televisions and
instant communication systems into our world. And we have nonmagical
businesses working on bringing some of the ideas we depend upon into
their world. Tied closely into all of this is the need to neutralize
the most deadly of the Muggle weapons. We've got plans to
transmute all the radioactive elements in the world into precious
metals…"Here Fred and George
were gasping."…just like the
Philosopher's Stone was supposed to turn lead into gold. We'll
have to handle their chemical and biological weapons. And then their
firearms. But we can't just destroy them; no it would make them
feel unprotected. So we'll have to create new items for defense. 
We're thinking energy-based weaponry, somewhat similar to our
spells, maybe like a stunner contained inside a weapon. We'd be
better able to defend ourselves against them…"Harry spoke for the
next hour about how the magical world would have to improve its own
set of skills and its ethical centers. "…wouldn't do to disarm
all the nonmagical folks just to have unscrupulous witches and
wizards start attacking them, would it?"Then the muggles would
need to begin to 'rediscover' the magical world. Sightings of
magical beasts in controlled environments; discovery of ancient and
magical plants to be used for healing; discovery of old books that
described the specific reasons and methods used to hide the magical
world. The Potter Estate wouldn't begin any of the actual seeding
for years, but they were deciding upon what, when, and how even at
this early stage."Then comes our
selective outreach to muggle governments, to tell them of our plans,
and to businesses and medical institutions and research universities.
 Then we begin the outreach to their media outlets. Then, in the
last step, we have the interconnection we need. It won't be easy
or fast and I've left out a couple ten thousand intermediate steps.
 But it is necessary…"Harry looked torn."I am a very private
person, so I wish none of this were necessary, you know. But it is. 
So I'll set aside my preferences and work on this plan. I'll
work to save the magical world from its own excesses and complacency
even though they will hate me for it. But, in the end, it will work.
 The truth will always out. Muggles are surprisingly close, through
their sciences, to uncovering how the magical force actually works. 
They call it other things, give it preposterous names. Quarks! I
tell you. But we have to do this in such a way that it's
predictable for the muggles and safe for us. And we will… Now, I
ask you again, Misters Weasley, do you wish to join the
Apprenticeship Program."Before Harry stopped
speaking, both Fred and George said, "Yes."Remus smiled and took
over the conversation. "Well, then, let's start thinking about
what you'll both be doing, then. I noted you were both interested
in training up on several muggle subjects…"X-c-X-c-X-c-XNeville Longbottom
appeared to be in as much of a daze as Fred and George Weasley
looked. The twins greeted their fellow Gryffindor pal."I'm glad to be
going home for a while. Lots to think about. Mum and Dad will be
excited and angry and happy and mad at me. Gran will stare at me and
make me want to wet myself, but I'll stand firm. And then I'll
come back and start my mastery in Magical Botany… During my test,
you know, they had me attempt to disarm a Ceylonese Fireball Vine. 
Never even set eyes on one before; had no idea it was even possible
to grow here…"Fred and George smiled.
 They both knew this vine had also been conjured or transfigured. Of
course, it was a great joke, so they kept it to themselves.Eventually all the
other Chosen rejoined them, save Fenecule Moody. Instead an imposing
looking Alastor Moody came out and started to speak with them. "You
lot, listen up. You'll be returning to your homes in a few minutes
so you can celebrate your Christmas, you know." Both Alastor's
real eye and his fake one rolled up at that comment. "I'm
issuing each of you with a portkey that will activate between eight
and nine o'clock on January 1. Speak your full name at it and you
will be transported here. Say nothing during that hour and you'll
have your memories, fond or not, of us. The memory charms we're
all under will prevent you from saying too much, although you'll
retain the information. You may speak with reporters and journalists
if they contact you. Because of the charm, you may not speak of
anything classified, which especially includes what you all say at
the War Memorial. Soon enough that particular truth will be out in
the world…"Luna asked, "What
happened to Fenecule?"Alastor smirked. "I
'encouraged' my young relation to return to his parents' home
and to actually get some common sense. I did tell him I'd support
him in a couple years if he wanted to try for a mastery here, but
he's obviously not ready now…" 'Nor probably ever will be,'
he continued muttering, not quite under his breath.The Chosen chatter with
each other for a few more moments before Alastor handed them their
portkeys. "Today it takes you out; on the first, it can bring you
back. Good luck!"With that, all the
Chosen disappeared from the dining hall.Harry walked through a
few moments later, headed toward his office inside the school. 
Alastor waved his boss down."They get out
safely?"Alastor nodded. "And
my family won't be dishonored by failure. Still don't know how
he made the cut…"Harry shrugged. "My
testing was correct about who should have been invited. But I'm
sort of glad we had the others come. Colin hadn't been identified
by my other tests, obviously I didn't seed the Muggle world with
them, not yet. Boy certainly seemed upset he couldn't bring his
camera along. He'll be something interesting: maybe we'll have a
new reporter or perhaps someone to start up a Potter Erotica division
in the not too distant future. Boy certainly seems to like to be out
of his own clothing."Harry and Alastor both
laughed at the joke. "But, I am glad at the confrontation Bracus
Snape provoked. Riddle is gone; Severus Snape is captured before he
could do something even more foul. Now, we do have to figure out
what to do with the young Snape…"Alastor mumbled
something about dumping the "young'in outside a homeless shelter
in Muggle London" and he didn't sound particularly like he was
joking."Cruel, Moody, too
cruel. He's another kind of war orphan. Not quite like Cedric or
Oliver Wood, but still now effectively an orphan."Alastor turned the
topic back to something Harry had wanted investigated. "I dug into
that Council member you asked about, err… Bilirubin Anders. Turns
out he hasn't done anything to support his Mastery vow toward
further education in at least five years."At that news, Harry
turned positively livid. The man had been elected to the Council but
hadn't done even the barest amount of work to further his knowledge
– or share his achievements – in Charms? What good was he."Do you think he's
the only one? The only shirker?"Moody shrugged."Find out. Maybe
we'll have to have the Mastery Board look at this annually. I will
not have people make solemn promises and then conveniently forget
them."Harry stormed out then,
looking like he wanted to duel something evil. Fortunately he calmed
down a bit by the time he arrived at his office. Remus and Sirius
were already inside. They kept quiet for a further moment as Harry
calmed himself. Eventually Harry was able to breath like a normal
person. He even smiled."Do you think this
group will work out, Harry?" Remus was intensely curious about
this, one of their most important experiments. It wouldn't be
worth anything, all this education, all this schooling, unless it
could be trained to other people, people who'd grown up not on the
Potter Estate."I have some grand
hopes for them… I think we've got some great ones just waiting
for the right circumstances."Sirius smiled. All
would be well. Those kind of grudging words Harry offered about one
of his own plans were about as kind as he got. The young man was
always hardest on himself. Always.





--------




Harry and the Magic FactoryA/N: Hadn't planned
on it, but there are some implied slash relationships mentioned in
this chapter. Feel free to skip the 'war orphans' section if
this is not your cup of tea. I don't plan to put Harry into any
pairings in this story, perhaps I will write in the reasons why in
future chapters.Chapter 16X-c-X-c-X-c-XHarry walked into
Healer Wycross' care room. The only patient inside was,
predictably, scowling."Happy Christmas,
Mister Snape."The death glare he
received for his efforts did not stop Harry. He had some unfortunate
news to deliver and a punishment to set."I have some
unpleasant news for you. Your letter reached your father yesterday. 
And he was so incensed at your loss of magic, possibly temporary, you
know, that he blasted your name off your family's tapestry for
being a squib…"Bracus Snape began to
scream in pain and horror. No one had yet used the word 'squib'
in his presence. But Harry preferred direct solutions. And breaking
through Bracus Snape's walls was necessary. Bracus needed to see
reality at least once in his prickly, spoiled life."Enough! You're
alive, Snape," Harry said. "That's more than any of Tom
Riddle's previous victims can say, save me. He's killed more
than a hundred himself, ordered nearly a thousand more killings. He
possessed your body and mind; you survived. It may even be possible
to restore your magic at some point. But not if you're screaming
like a banshee in a thunderstorm."It took nearly a minute
before Bracus stopped his wailing."Now. We have a few
things to discuss as semi-reasonable individuals. You have committed
one of the most serious possible crimes here. My council of advisors
has been demanding we execute you…"Here the wailing
started again, but it held a different timbre. Fear."…but I wouldn't
have it. The question is what to do with you now. I can't return
you to where you were before, in your fifth year at Hogwarts. Nor
can I treat you like one of the children here. You are dangerous and
not a little stupid, Snape. But your father has made the situation
worse, as I was trying to tell you. He went and tried killing the
Oompahs of the Potter Emporiums as misguided vengeance for what you
did to yourself. He's currently in a cell awaiting trial for his
crimes…"Harry let the wailing
commence. He didn't try to stem it or stop it for a good long
while. Bracus was a long way from seeing reality.X-c-X-c-X-c-XHermione Granger's
portkey deposited her back at her parent's home in Kent. They were
dentists and Muggles and she loved them both very much. She was home
to celebrate Christmas and to tell them about her plans to get
married.Draco Malfoy would be
coming to visit on Boxing Day.Hermioned hugged her
mum when she made it downstairs. Her father was in the basement
making a mess in his necessaries room: the place where he kept his
bottle of single malt and practiced his taxidermy hobby."Well," Ruth
Granger said."I'm engaged."A squeal echoed through
the house. It had been uncommonly difficult on her parents to let
their five, nearly six-year old daughter go off to a half-baked
'magic' school that they couldn't visit. But they'd seen
their shy, retiring young lady develop into a heartbreaker. She
dutifully sent letters back twice per week, and this Draco Malfoy
person had begun appearing in them four years ago as a regular
feature.'And Draco has been
so focused on his potions making I can hardly drag him into the
library to prepare for our Basic Competency exams. And I know I'll
fail unless Draco helps me…'"Let's see it,
let's see the ring," Ruth said.Hermione held out her
hand. "He proposed this morning, first thing. Brought me
breakfast to my door. There was a little box mixed in among the
dishes he fixed. Oh, he's wonderful, mum. He cooked it himself. 
He's brilliant and sweet. And I know you'll love him to pieces,
everyone does."Hermione heard the
footfalls before her mother did. Ruth's squeals had apparently
awoken Daniel Granger from whatever bizarre aspect of his hobby he'd
been involved with."Is everyone alive? 
I heard wailing to raise the dead just a second ago, I think…"Hermione ran to her
father and wrapped her arms around him. She hugged him tight. She
did make it back home every few months during breaks, but she'd
missed her family."Daddy, don't joke
about raising the dead. We can really do things like that, did you
know? Anyway, I'm not going to be your little princess for much
longer," she said. "My knight has come to take me away…"X-c-X-c-X-c-XBracus Snape closed his
eyes and refused to look at the lying bastard in the room with him. 
"You're lying about everything. I know it. You caught me by
surprise, but I know you're lying. My father loves me. He'd
never 'blast my name' off the tapestry…"Harry just blinked
twice. Then he pulled out an odd magical device from his pocket. 
The sound that poured out was Severus Snape's voice, his rantings
about his own son.Bracus listened and
grew paler and paler. "It can't be true… My dad… 
Dumbledore… They lo—they need me."Ah, Harry noticed. 
Bracus' assertion of 'love' had changed to an assertion of
'need.' And that was probably true. But it didn't change what
Snape had done."Why do they 'need'
you, Bracus?"The man resting in a
hospital bed was silent for a while. "They wanted information. 
Well, Dumbledore did. Father didn't want me to come at all, but
Dumbledore insisted that such a gift, as he put it, should not
go to waste.""Did they tell you to
observe?"Snape nodded."Did they tell you to
try to steal something?"Snape shook his head. 
"That was my idea, to prove my value.""Snape, a child
should never need to 'prove' his own worth. Parents and
educators should just see it. The fact that you felt you needed to
prove yourself just shows how much is wrong."Bracus knew he should
argue, knew he should defend his father. But those words, that
voice. It wasn't possible to fake the way his father swore, the
particularly inventive curses only he seemed to use."What are you going
to do with me? If I'm such an idiot and a squib and totally
without value…""I never said any of
that, Snape. I'm honestly not sure what to do with you. I
certainly don't trust you, not at all. But I will not abandon you
like your father has. So, that leaves us both with a very small
number of choices…"X-c-X-c-X-c-XMolly Weasley took one
look at her beautiful twin boys when they arrived in a jumble on the
floor of the house and all hell broke loose. In one moment she was
screaming in joy, beginning to scold them for staying away so long
without any explanation, demanding that they immediately sit down
because they looked perilously frail and thin ("didn't these
people know how to cook," she demanded), and squeezing anything she
could get her arms around.Fred was the first to
begin fighting off the eight tentacles of his overzealous mother. 
George started pushing her away shortly thereafter. "You're our
mother, you say, but have you forgotten we're twenty now. Really."Ron walked into the
kitchen, saw his mother in high dudgeon, snagged a cold chicken
drumstick, and quickly departed. He was hungry, of course, but he
wasn't hungry to get between his mother and her prey.Ron then waved off his
brothers Bill and Charlie from going in. "Let her finish her first
round of mothering and interrogation…"The older boys laughed
and resumed their seats. They could see Fred and George a bit later.For the twins, they
were both pondering if they could return early to the Potter Estate
and face down more dragons and basilisks. At least those hadn't
been real. But their mother was a true force of nature, like an
all-knowing earth goddess plunked down in the middle of Ottery St.
Catchpole."Tell me everything,"
she finally said.And, like Weasleys,
they confessed before the immovable force that was called mum. They
told her what they'd eaten, what they'd seen, the testing they'd
taken (omitting the more dangerous and interesting parts, of course),
and the offer they had to return – to learn the pranking, potions,
and charms businesses from the very best.Molly was in tears
before her boys stopped talking. "Oh, you're leaving me…"It wasn't enough to
distract her by mentioning Bill trapped in an Egyptian tomb or
Charlie possibly getting eaten by a hungry dragon. No, for Molly,
for some reason, this was worse. Her respectable sons, the ones with
good, dependable jobs in the Ministry, were leaving for some
harebrained school, to learn Merlin knows what.George just listened. 
Fred was wondering where his father was – he was the only person to
calm Molly Prewitt Weasley down once she'd gotten into one of her
spells."And then we'll
never find your bodies once you're dead and robbed, my beautiful
boys. Oh no, you're never leaving again, not ever.""Mum," Fred tried
to say, "they're good people there, very private, but brilliant. 
And you should see the kinds of spells they've developed. And Dad
would love them…they've got a whole division of a company devoted
to adapting all things Muggle for wizard use. And they make their
students study muggle subjects in depth, like years of muggle science
and history…""Oh, no," Molly
Weasley shouted, "I don't trust 'em. You're going back to
the Ministry. You're going back to the Committee on Experimental
Charms so that Arthur and I can keep our eyes on you. And you're
living here, in this house, until your both thirty. No Egypt or
Romania or some hidden estate for you boys…"Oh, yes, they were
leaving, Fred and George both knew. They had a few days to work on
their mum. Even if that failed, they were still leaving. There
would never be another opportunity like this, not ever.X-c-X-c-X-c-XThe Ministry aurors
moved through the nearly deserted section of Diagon Alley. With a
few flicks of their wands, the new "Security Substation" was
built. Two to three Aurors would be 'permanently' stationed here
by order of Minister of Magic Cornelius Fudge, countersigned by his
Senior Undersecretary Dolores Umbridge.So the Aurors set up
their station. Its interior was two meters square in size, designed
to house Aurors when the weather was bad, otherwise the Aurors were
to be on patrol whenever possible. The thing looked like a right
eyesore, crooked and leaning to one side, the white and red paint
coming off already in large flecks. It had been pulled out of
storage just for this job. No one at the Ministry expected that the
Aurors would have to remain here very long.Their official orders
were clear: prevent and contain public disturbances. Rowdy drunks
from the Leaky Cauldrons, thieves, shady characters hanging out in
Knockturn Alley.Their unofficial orders
were even clearer: light harassment of the patrons of Potter
Emporiums. They had built the small little shack so that it mostly
blocked off the Potter store from the rest of the Alley and even made
accessing its entrance a challenge.The Aurors didn't
care either way what their orders were. The Galleons were made of
gold, not dreams or feelings; their wages spent just fine no matter
what they did during their daily grind.All work, especially
police work, was political. They were all used to it. Merlin knew
they had each staffed so many of Fudge's fundraisers and taken care
of any wizards stupid enough to protest outside. Yes. All work at
the Ministry was ultimately political; people who didn't see it
that way shouldn't work there.Simple as that.What the Aurors didn't
notice was that a couple of businesses and passersby on Diagon Alley
immediately noticed the implications of the new 'security station.'
 The goblins inside Gringotts were the very first to notice. This
change in policy by the Ministry of Magic had the goblins concerned –
well, concerned and excited. Goblins knew far more about the
Ministry than even most of the wizards and witches who worked there. 
And they knew a secret that none of them acknowledged, a secret that
had been kept for ten years and that was now, because of this action
today, likely to come out very soon.It was a secret that
was reconfirmed every time the goblins received an 'official'
correspondence from the Ministry. For the last ten years, the
goblins hadn't followed a single one. And the Ministry was
completely stumped why the magic of Great Britain hadn't forced the
goblins to do the wizards' bidding, to do the bidding of their duly
sworn government.'Arrogant wizards'
was a very common refrain these days inside Gringotts. But that
arrogance was to be short-lived, they now knew.And wouldn't the
world be an interesting place when that happened.More than one goblin
smiled toothily in anticipation.X-c-X-c-X-c-XCedric Diggory held
open the door to the large common room and started ushering people
inside. For the first hour on Christmas, it was to be only war
orphans, then other people who had grown up with Christmas tradition
might stop by and join in with the celebration.Rose Zeller and Graham
Pritchard zipped inside the room before Cedric let it shut behind
him. Cedric looked around for familiar faces. This had been much
easier to stage when everyone was younger, but now that the oldest
orphans had their masteries and had moved into homes of their own,
this was hard to pull together. But very worth it.For Cedric, Harry and
these other orphans were his family, large and unruly as it was.Cedric was just old
enough to remember a bit about that house in America where they'd
all been stored away, like so many boxes of Bertie Bott's Every
Flavor Beans. He could remember Sirius and Remus and Alastor coming
to free them.Cedric walked over to
the small group with little Jimmy Peakes (who was no longer so
little), Kenton Chambers, Barnabas Capper, and Theresa Corner. 
Growing up, Cedric had shared his bedroom with Kenton and Barnabas at
different times. Cedric sort of missed them."Happy Christmas."Theresa turned around
and gave him a hug. "Looking good, Ced," she said, the terrible
flirt."You're already
married off, Theresa. You know, eyes only for your husband? 
Besides, I think of you as among my first mothers. I wasn't even
six before I had you chasing behind me, screeching that I should pick
up after myself. You were an unconscionable nag.""And you still don't
like picking up after yourself, Ced." That was from Barnabas,
another neat freak.Cedric rolled his eyes
and kept talking with the group before he saw Oliver Wood and his
group walk in. "Oliver's the St. Nicholas this year. Gotta go
get him the presents to distribute."He walked quickly over
to his friend. Terrance Wood, Ollie's older brother, was in
front. Michael Corner was walking to Olliver's side. 'Were they
together now as a couple?' Cedric didn't know. Oliver was a
touch flighty as a person and he switched out his lovers, and even
their genders, at a rather alarming rate."The outfit is over
in the broom cupboard, Ollie. Presents are in a massive sack. And
the cupboard's only large enough for one," Cedric said.Oliver whispered to
Cedric. "But you and I used to fit into a bed meant for one, Ced."Cedric laughed. "And
I was fine with it until you wanted our bed meant for one to host
more than just you and me, Ollie. You're a right cute bastard, but
I still consider you one of my best friends. But no snogging in the
broom cupboard with your newest 'special friend.'"Oliver Wood grumbled in
amusement for a moment. Then he wandered off to do his quick change
act. If Cedric's headcount was correct, the second generation of
war orphans would be in attendance this year. Matthew Summers had
already started a family with Orla Quirke, even though the girl had
only just finished her Basic Competency. So she'd have the fun
task of helping raise children at the Potter Estate while working on
the stages toward her Mastery.Poor Orla.At least she didn't
have to raise the child by herself.One of the rather
interesting traditions at the Potter Estate was that children were
raised communally, away from their parents, assuming the children had
any still living. The tradition had started when there was Harry and
more than thirty other children and only a very few adults available
to watch after them all.But it raised better
children. That Draco Malfoy had grown up to be a rather nice,
brilliant person, completely unlike his worthless late father.Cedric smiled and went
over to greet Matthew Urquhart, William Zeller, and Herbert Corner
who preparing for their Basic Competency this year. Cedric loved
playing the host for these kinds of gatherings. But he was also
keeping his eye out for his own special lady.Cedric, too, wanted to
start a family. He wanted to have the Diggory name continue onward. 
He wanted to be something more than a Healer; more than a war orphan.
 He wanted to start up new life, be responsible for someone other
than himself.X-c-X-c-X-c-X"…and your last
option is to enroll at our Muggle school, Bracus. All the magical
children attend their Muggle classes there. But you won't be
coming over here to attend much, maybe magical zoology or botany."Bracus Snape was quiet
for a long time. He didn't like any of his choices. All of them
meant he would never live with the magical world of Britain again. 
He could be exiled to a foreign country with a little money; he could
be exiled to this place with a little money. For all the
permutations this Potter laid out, it came down to these two choices."I'm not deciding
today, Potter. And I want to see my father. I want to know for sure
that you're telling me the truth."Harry nodded. He'd
expected some fierce counternegotiation. It suggested that maybe
Bracus was actually acting like an adult. Maybe he was sensing
reality. He certainly hadn't embraced it yet, but it was possible
he knew that there was reality just waiting for him to comprehend it."That we can do. I
will disguise you and you can attend the trial of your father. Your
father will be found guilty, I assure you. And it will be awful, but
I will let you go.""So, what happens
now?""That's up to you. 
I've given you the choices…""No, when is my
trial? I mean, if you're trying my father for attacking house
elves, then surely I get tried for what I did. I almost let a Dark
Lord free…"Bracus was getting
closer to reality, good."The fate of the
Chosen lies entirely in my hand, as we agreed before we started
this."That angered and
terrified Bracus. He swallowed and turned his head away."I'll think about
it, Potter."The boy was a tough
case. And ungrateful. And sarcastic, prickly, and surly. Just
maybe there was something to salvage here. But even Harry wasn't
completely sure why he was offering this ungrateful prat a second
chance. Was there really anything worth redeeming here?Harry stood up and
walked out of the room. He had a Christmas celebration to attend
with the war orphans.Harry shot one more
glance back to Bracus. He was usually a good judge of character. 
And there was something, something small now, that said that Bracus
could be a worthwhile investment.Harry rolled his eyes
at himself. Could, would, should. So much potential in the world;
very few promises ever truly met. And Harry was made up of nothing
more than hope and dreams.X-c-X-c-X-c-XNeville Longbottom got
a dignified, restrained greeting from his father and a sobbing
strangling greeting from his emotional mother. He was glad that Luna
hadn't come home with him to see this. No, he'd be visiting Luna
tomorrow at her father's house.He spent a happy
morning explaining everything to his parents."And they've got
the best collection of magical plants I've ever seen. And the
nonmagical ones, they've got everything. I never thought such a
place could exist. And when I took my tests, I did really well on
Charms and Magical Botany. And their heads of Botany research agreed
to help me plan out my research and direct my mastery project. It's
like I have a reason and a place to be now…"Neville, of course,
didn't get the chance to finish his story for a long while once his
grandmum came into the room.She looked as angry as
a fire-breathing dragon. The wobbling vulture on her best hat didn't
help to make her look any less intimidating.But Frank was willing
to wade right into the situation. "What in the world has you so
wound up? And why are you wearing that mouldering beast on your
hat?"Augusta Longbottom
looked around for some tea. Then she sat down, harrumphing on the
way down. "Those people, I swear to Merlin, the next time they
show up here, I'm going to kill them first then feed them to
Neville's man-eating bog…"That set Alice off. 
"Neville, I thought I told you to get rid of that nasty plant… I
won't have you risking your neck and your limbs just so you can
have a Peruvian Jungle Nest in your greenhouse. Get. Rid. Of. 
It."Neville rolled his
eyes. Leave it to his grandmum to spoil things when he should be
buttering his folks up. He had to announce that Luna would be going
with him back to the Potter's…and that they'd be sharing a
room, and a bed, from here on out.Frank returned the
conversation back to sanity."So, mother, why
exactly are you threatening to kill people and feed them to a plant?""Reporters," she
spat. "Camped out in front of our home. Don't they know they're
trespassing. I could use anything short of Unforgivables on them and
they'd be the ones in trouble…"Frank rolled his eyes. 
"If anyone would know that, mum, it'd be you. I suspect you
wrote those rules, didn't you?""Well, of course I
did." August sighed. Her poor, slow son… "During the war. 
Never allowed them to be suspended, did I? Decent people should feel
safe in their homes. Terrorists and Death Eaters shouldn't be able
to claim any kind of defense if they're in someone else's home
attacking them, should they?"Neville tried to insert
himself into the conversation. But Augusta wasn't finished."Damned reporters
wouldn't leave until they'd talked with our 'Chosen,'
wouldn't even call him Neville. No, he was just some empty title
to them. Really! The nerve of those slimey curs…"Neville didn't thing
dogs, or curs, were usually covered in slime. But he wasn't about
to argue with his grandmum when she was in one of her moods like
this."'What did the
Chosen see? Why did they want him?' Well, of course any
intelligent folks would want Neville to come visit… 'When will
he be giving a statement?' Why would any decent person want to
speak with such vultures…"Neville kept his
patience and hopes that his grandmum would eventually wind down. He
opted not to remind her that she herself was wearing a vulture on her
head.It could take a while,
though, for grandmum to settle down. Neville was prepared to wait it
out. He had a lot of things to explain. He had a lot of things to
look forward to now.X-c-X-c-X-c-XSusan Bones walked into
her aunt's kitchen to the interrogation of her life. Of course, it
made sense. Her aunt was the Director of Magical Law Enforcement. 
But the kind of questions that Amelia Bones was asking were
unexpected."So, you think these
people are as pure and honest as they say they are?""This guy, Harry, he
had Voldemort's soul in a jar for fifteen years. He kept it there
without revealing the spirit's existence until he could gather the
objects needed to destroy Voldemort once and for all. I'd say
that's about as good a character recommendation as I've ever
seen… He didn't want credit or rewards, he just wanted Voldemort
dead. He's saved people's lives who didn't even know Harry. 
He even saved the person who tried to set Voldemort free again. I
didn't think people like him existed.""They don't,"
Amelia Bones said. "At least not in our world. We're full of
other types of folks… I don't know how to say this, Susan, but
I'm leaving the Ministry. I can't stand what it's become. And
I won't support it any longer…"Susan perked up then. 
She finally understood why her Aunt had asked all these bizarre
questions. She wanted to know if there was another choice."Maybe you can just
come with me? Or maybe we can get a letter to them from one of the
Potter Emporiums…"The brainstorming
lasted a good while. But Amelia and Susan both felt infinitely
better at the end."You know, Susan, I
think this opportunity is just about perfect for you. I'd love to
join you, if I could. I won't be safe, I think, once I leave the
Ministry. So let's contact them. And see if they'd be willing
to invite me for a quick discussion. I'm very interested in
hearing more…"Amelia had hope in her
voice once more.





--------




Harry and the Magic FactoryChapter 17X-c-X-c-X-c-XJanuary 1, 1998Colin Creevey landed
with a heavy thud outside the Potter School. His many bags landed
right beside him, neatly stacked. He was the first of the Chosen to
return. And terribly excited. He'd brought his camera back with
him. And he'd made a promise to get his younger brother, Dennis,
into the program as soon as possible. Or even enroll him in the
Potter School.It wasn't until Colin
stood up and looked around that he noticed how very much the Village
surrounding the Potter School had changed. There were massive
banners and beautiful, nearly sentient lights flickering in the
daylight. It looked like the whole place had been charmed into a
fairy tale village.Susan Bones – and her
Aunt – appeared in front of the school a minute later. Amelia
barely had time to lift herself from the ground before Sirius Black
and Remus Lupin appeared from inside the school."Colin, Susan,
Amelia, good to see you all," Remus said. Sirius nodded toward his
old boss from his days in the Ministry."Thank you," came
out of all three, before everyone shared a quick laugh. Amelia
continued with, "I'm so glad you came when Susan sent off that
owl, Sirius. I'm glad to be done of those fools for now. Even put
the house under sealing spells, not even a bacteria can survive in an
environment like that…"Colin meanwhile latched
onto Remus. His entreaty came out jumbled, then his second attempt
sounded like, "Dennis, my brother you know, is so excited about
what I told and I thought maybe he could come here to go to school
because it's just so much better than Hogwarts, don't you know,
and Dennis and my parents were terribly excited, so excited about it,
and I said I would ask, and I'm asking, Mr. Lupin, can my brother
come here and go to the Potter School, he'd be a third year this
year and he and I both study a bit of the Muggle world during the
summers and he'd fit right in, I just know it…"Remus settled down the
excitable young man. He also said that Dennis Creevey would be
welcome to attend the Potter School if he and his parents agreed. 
(Harry and his other close counselors had already foreseen the
possibility that the Chosen may wish to bring other family members
into their lives. And when reasonable, the requests were to be
honored.)Remus helped Colin
carry his bags to the ground floor of where the Apprentices would be
living in the near future. Then he gave Colin a portkey and a thick
sheaf of papers. "Be back soon, Colin, you don't want to miss
the dueling, I'm sure. It's our most important tournament
today."And, like that, Colin
was gone to fetch his younger brother. And Amelia Bones was amazed
that such a village existed in England without all that many people
knowing of its existence.The Weasleys descended
into the fray next. Sirius and Remus were directing the new
Apprentices every which way. Finally, Neville and Luna appeared,
nearly at the end of the time window. Sirius seemed relieved. Remus
just looked like he'd known all the time."Sorry," Luna said.
 "Neville took forever to pack. His mum kept shoving these weevil
infested books into his trunks and I kept taking them out. Then his
grandmum insisted on the most horrid of wrackspurt-infested hats and
robes. And I stomped a couple of times… It's the prospectice
fiancee's job to keep her husband safe, you know…"Neville was, of course,
blushing from the number of embarrassing revelations Luna had just
made.But all was forgotten
when an enormous detonation sounded from the far side of the Village.
 That was when Harry Potter rushed out of the school like a demon
possessed. "Stupid, stupid," he muttered. Then he saw the
Apprentices gathered."Welcome back,
everyone. I see we have a full complement. We'll do the paperwork
and assignments bit tomorrow, I expect. Amelia, I don't believe
we've been properly introduced before….""I've never met
you, young man.""…well, you have,
just not with this face, I'd expect. I attend a fair number of
conferences during the year. I saw you last presenting a paper on
criminal jurisprudence in Brussels." Amelia just nodded, mostly
unbelieving. There was no way a teenager could have sat through that
conference; it had nearly bored her to tears. "Perhaps we'll
have a chance to chat one-on-one tomorrow. I'd have arranged it
for today, and thank you again for coming, but we've been coping
with a couple of different emergencies in the last few days. We'll
get your testing set up tomorrow to see where you might like to fit
in…" Here, Remus whispered in Harry's ear. "And we'll
have a new student for the Potter School, wonderful. Well, farewell
for now. Enjoy the tournament."The young man wandered
off and Amelia wondered at what had just happened."Who is he?"Remus stepped closer to
Amelia. "That young man is the future of magic."Amelia raised a
skeptical eyebrow. Sirius stepped into the conversation then. 
"Amelia, you've seen Alastor Moody duel, correct? Ever bested
him?"Amelia Bones laughed. 
"Yes. And no. I've never met anyone who could best Alastor."Sirius smiled more
broadly. "Get ready, Amelia. Alastor's gotten a whole lot
better. And you'll also see him getting beat today. He's only
ranked second or third here nowadays.""And what does Moody
have to do with that boy?"Remus laughed. "You'll
see."X-c-X-c-X-c-XHarry was watching the
first round of the dueling tournament. Moody was off tromping around
some of the circles already, too. He'd bellow out random slogans
and encouragements to the people inside the ring, often as not
distracting them from their casting. Harry always enjoyed Moody's
sense of humor, bizarre as it was.Harry watched some of
his students get aggressive. He smiled. He saw little Tyler Vector
cast a stunner with his wand and then send a wandless banisher at his
opponent. Drove the young lady right into the stunner, too. Lovely
technique! Boy had just passed his Basic Competency and so this was
his first Dueling Tournament. He perhaps had it in him to pursue a
Dueling Mastery, if he chose.Harry kept wandering
around, observing the progress of the students he taught now and
again at the Potter School. Harry, of course, was the sole wandless
instructor, but very few children manifested the talents to utilize
significant magic in a wandless fashion. He also lectured on his
specialties within transfiguration, charms, and the other magical
disciplines.So, Dueling Day for
Harry was like watching graduation. His friends and chums and
students were growing up, growing talented.Harry surveyed the
proceedings. There were eight dueling circles set up and a couple
hundred spectators already observing the proceedings. This early
round had evolved over the years so that one) the top ten finishers
from last year all sat it out to allow some new blood to gain
experience and two) it was a pool system, where each competitor
dueled with everyone else in his or her randomly drawn pool. The two
best finishers within each pool moved on to the second round, along
with the ten ranked duelists. Then the fun really started.After this round
concluded, the first exhibition duel would occur. It was the one
Harry had volunteered to perform in this year: transfiguration only,
for show and education, not for ranking credit. There were
surprisingly few transfiguration masters within the Potter Estate. 
Harry thought they'd perhaps set the bar too high to complete a
mastery in that field. He made a note to revisit the concern in a
year or two.Harry continued around
the rings observing. He'd created the wards that kept all spells
inside and allowed nothing to enter once the duel had started. 
Perhaps he'd have to block out external noise, too, but that wasn't
realistic in a true battle. Of all the things they were, battles
were not silent."Caedo," he heard. 
He listened to people positively shouting out their jinxes and hexes.
 "Reducto. Incendio. Lacero." But there were a few, a very
few, on this side of the pavilion who seemed to have begun to
understood how to duel. Age didn't seem to matter. There were a
few young ones, in their first eligibility, dueling like would-be
masters. There were quite a few who knew better dueling like open
books who wanted to get hurt.Still, there was reason
for some hope and enjoyment. More people had mastered his silent
method of redirecting spells. No one seems to have crafted any
spells to counter the redirection, however. So, perhaps more than
one person would be shocked when Harry started showing one or two of
his special spells. Harry used neither wand nor word when dueling so
no one would be able to directly copy him. But the precedent would
be set: people would know it was possible to counter redirection. 
People would begin researching it.And, in a few years,
within competitive dueling, redirection would hold less value. By
then Harry would have introduced some other of his new efforts, ones
no one else would ever be able to duplicate.Harry always liked to
be three steps ahead of his opponents. Which was the reason it was
so important not just to interrogate Severus Snape today, but to at
least try him for being a Death Eater. It was New Year Day, but it
was important to convene a trial even when the afternoon's mock
duels took place.Snape likely knew
something about whatever the Ministry, at Dumbledore's request, was
doing. Hell, even the goblins could smell Dumbledore all over this:
Fudge wasn't smart enough for this plan and Umbridge couldn't see
over her large stomach to kick at an Oompah unless someone else
helped her with the entire plan.Harry eventually saw
his friend Cedric in the crowd observing one of the matches. "I
thought you were signing up, Ced?""I'm a healer, not
a fighter, Harry. I'll have to stitch together these yobs…"Harry laughed."Not even an
exhibition match? If memory serves, you're fairly devastating with
illusions and charms. Wouldn't even have gotten a scratch on you."Cedric shook his head. 
"Nah, the tournament director asked, but I passed this year. I'm
trying to pull everything together so I can finish my mastery in
Healing by July.""Well, Ced, I'll be
expecting to see your contribution next Duelling Day, then."Harry moved off to
observe the next dueling ring. The first round matches usually went
quickly. Eight rings, twelve pools of competitors, thirty four
eventual competitors for the second round split between four pools. 
Then more duels: the top twelve all duel each other. Then the final
round for final placement: the top duelist out of the third round
takes on the second best. The loser takes on the third best, and so
on, until all the top ten duelists are settled into place.Harry saw some of the
new Apprentices near a ring up ahead. "Fred, George, good to see
both of you.""Just wondering how
we could partake…""Got to pass your
Basic Competency to try it, or have a relevant Mastery. So, work
hard and you can give it a shot fairly soon," Harry said.He stood next to the
twins offering commentary as two young adults tore into each other
while laughing and joking at each other. It seemed like fun,
ferocious fun."Stick around, you
can play in the afternoon after the formal Dueling Tournament is
over. There will be lots of people eager to take on Hogwarts
graduates, if you'd like.""Anything goes,"
one of the asked."As long as you agree
to it before you start. Ordinary rules are no killing curses. 
Period. So pranks, wards, potions, anything like that is
legitimate."That was when a loud
noise filled the open-air pavilion where the dueling rings were set
up. Suddenly a much larger ring shimmered into view at the very end
of the pavilion. The ring for the finals and for the exhibition
matches."Guess that's me,"
Harry said. "Hope you enjoy and pick up some new skills."He did hear one of the
twins moaning a bit. "Hope we fit in here. They're smart like
Ravenclaws here and more vicious than Slytherins.""Yup," the other
confirmed. "We'll have to start cracking open books and being
responsible sorts now. Damn it all to Morgana."Harry was still
laughing when he crawled into the main dueling ring. He'd already
been announced, as had his 'opponent,' Compton Whipporwill, and
that they were limited to transfigurations only.Each man took an
opposing side of the ring. When the short countdown ended, Harry
smiled, raised his hands in a dramatic fashion, and then disappeared
inside a tropical jungle that just seemed to erupt around him.The audience gasped. 
Harry had never shown off his conjuration skills quite like this
before. But it certainly was impressive. The vines inside the
jungle began slithering out like thousand of snakes. Compton
transfigured stones into weapons to begin hacking away at everything.
 Then Harry's jungle emitted five hundred tiny little birds that
erupted into the air and then flew down to Compton and seemed to hang
in the air, creating a kind of living shield between the opponents.Massive trees from the
conjured jungle turned into stone golems and began walking toward
Compton.Neither Fred nor George
had ever seen a duel like that. There were no spells flying across
the area, no one shouting out words. Hell, no one could even see
Harry, he'd just disappeared inside the jungle he conjured. 
There was no way to conjure like that, but somehow both of them had
seen this young man do it. It was utterly bizarre and beautiful.A twelve foot long wall
of bamboo seemed to erupt out of the ground behind Compton. The man
began transfiguring as fast as he could. But the bamboo weaved to
evade his spells. Eventually long stalks of it began to curl around
his body as just the jungle vines tied together his feet.The golem transfigured
from a tree plucked Compton from the ground and held him in midair. 
The man's wand was carefully levered away from him by all the
strange little birds.Finally, a massive
black jaguar leapt from the jungle and stalked toward the golem and
its hostage. It looked like the magical construct was planning to
make a meal out of Compton, when it suddenly reverted to a human
form. Harry was a jaguar animagus. Wicked, Fred and George thought.Loud and sustained
applause filled the open air. It had been a short, but particularly
intense battle. Compton hadn't even had the first opportunity to
go on the offensive. But it was still a work of wonder.Harry walked out of the
dueling circle after he freed Compton. "Since the duel was so
brief, I'll leave the transfigurations in place for thirty minutes
in case any of you care to step inside and play around…"The crowd cheered. 
Fred and George were among the first inside. Whatever that magic
was, it was brilliant. Oh, the pranks one could do with something
like that at their disposal. They began plotting immediately.Harry used his spare
moment to step over to the building where Snape's interrogation and
trial would take place. He had only thirty minutes for his go at
interrogation, but Harry was sure it would suffice. The trial this
afternoon could drag the rest out of the man.X-c-X-c-X-c-XSeverus Snape fell into
consciousness the hard way. He gasped for breath. He'd been stuck
into his own dreams for so long he felt like he'd lost his way back
into reality.But now he realized
he'd simply been stunned. Stunned so that it felt like he was out
for a very long time. That was odd. He counted the days and nights.
 He'd been in his cell for just over a month. But, with this
stunning, Severus thought perhaps he'd been here even longer.His thoughts turned for
a moment to Bracus before he remembered that his one-time son was a
squib now and unworthy of the name Snape.Then his mind turned
inward.He needed information
now: Where was he? Who had brought him here? Why? And how did he
wriggle his way out of it? If it was anything legal in Britain,
Dumbledore would have already freed Snape. So, he'd either been
picked up by vigilantes in Britain or by just about anyone outside
Britain.Didn't narrow much
down.Snape closed his eyes
for a moment. He remembered the duel with the man in the darkness. 
He remembered that horrible bowel-loosening spell, but not much else.
 Then the month in his cell, the tiny little meals. Snape had never
felt full. Snape always felt at least a little bit tired. Whatever
these people were doing was certainly keeping him weak and
off-kilter.When Snape opened his
eyes again, there was someone else in his little room. The kid was
short, dark-haired. Merlin, it looked like bloody James Potter. 
Perhaps it was…"You have twenty-two
minutes to confess your crimes, Snape. Then it's out of my hands…"It didn't sound like
James Potter. This one sounded colder than the Dark Lord right now. 
A horrified chill descended down Severus Snape's back. If this was
Potter, then they knew about his poisoning at the Potter Emporiums."Crimes?"Playing innocent was a
spy's first trick."Serving Tom Riddle,
the self-named Lord Voldemort. Attacking Oompahs, the creatures you
call house elves…"Ah ha. Severus knew
his next move."Preposterous. I am
a respected Potions Master and a teacher at Hogwarts, your old
school, remember, James? 'Course you couldn't touch a cauldron
without having it explode, could you?" He paused as a nasty smirk
crawled across his face. "As you can see from my bare arms, I do
not have the Dark Mark.""Let me correct a few
of your misapprehensions, Mister Snape. My name is Harry Potter. My
father, James, was killed by your Dark Lord many, many years ago. 
And the only reason you do not now bear the Dark Mark is that I took
care of your Dark Lord's final binding keeping his soul tied to the
earth. He's finally gone now, forever. He will not be coming
back, so disregard whatever things he might have told you about
immortality." This Harry looked over Snape's shoulder then. 
"Nineteen minutes, Mr. Snape. Confess."Snape felt the
situation was out of his control. Time for another tactic:
belligerence and demanding his rights."I am a citizen of
the British Ministry of Magic. I demand a hearing before the
Wizengamot. You're just a thug, a terrorist. And you can't
legally do a thing to me, Potter."Harry smiled. 
"Seventeen minutes, Snape." The kid knew something. He was
utterly cold, too, more so than the Dark Lord had ever been. He'd
have been throwing Crucio's around by this point in an
'interrogation.'"You'll not see
justice from the Wizengamot and let me tell you why. I have called
upon very old laws, the old Liege Laws. Your master attacked and
killed my parents; I defeated him when I was very young. As a
result, all of his property, including his vassals and their
property, belong to me. Snape, you literally belong to me. I am
giving you the courtesy of confession before I force you into it. I
thought we'd start off on the right foot, if possible. Fourteen
minutes."With those simple
words, Snape's mental shields seemed to collapse. He thought of
all the disappeared families, Malfoys, Carrows, Lestranges, Notts,
and the others. Merlin. He was in deep.Severus began trying to
determine if there was anything in the room he could use to attack
this Harry with. But it was just his bed, bolted to the floor, and a
blanket. Snape wondered if his wandless magic was strong enough. 
Maybe a Levicorpus would work on someone this young and
inexperienced.Severus tried.Harry just smiled. He
wasn't flipped up into the air. Nothing at all happened."You're not strong
enough to flip over a flea, Mister Snape."The Potions Master felt
the chill of fear settle into his bones. His bag of tricks was
nearly exhausted."Twelve minutes."Snape just remained on
his bed. Silence was a spy's first and last resort. Snape had
violated one of his own principles by leaping immediately to denial. 
Now it wouldn't be of much use."You know, I am
interested in what you did to your son. We've had a Mind Healer
working on him since his accident. And our Forensic Healer managed
to figure out what potions you doused him with. He'll actually be
able to think on his own again in a few months, we think. But the
tortures you – and others – inflicted on him, we're still
trying to figure out what they were."Snape was way beyond
fear now. What he'd done to Bracus, with Dumbledore's insistence
and assistance, was common but illegal. Nearly all the old line
pureblood families used similar indoctrination methods. The exact
formulae varied; some relied upon aversion therapies to correct bad
habits. Some used Imperius to command thoughtful obedience. Snape
had chosen elements of torture to punish misbehavior, blocked in
black with special memory charms, in addition to compulsion potions
layers on top of each other. Six potions per year, roughly, taken at
different times was plenty to keep Bracus' mind and body in line."Torture me, if you
will, Potter. Your family always delighted in torture, I should
know. Your filthy father nearly got me killed back in school, from a
prank, a prank…""Snape, don't lie. 
It was Sirius who nearly got you killed; it was my father who saved
your life. Technically you are under a life debt to me, but lying is
not an appropriate or recognized way of repaying it."Oh god, Severus
thought. The kid knew all his tricks. And Snape was too weak to
continue lying and bluffing this way through this."I'm ready for
whatever torture you may have, Potter.""Seven minutes,
Severus Snape. Seven minutes to atone. Do you wish to use them?"The room fell silent
for the remaining time. "There will be no torture," Harry said. 
"But, when you're tried this afternoon, the truth-telling wards
will be at full strength. Works even better than veritaserum, which
I'm sure you know some kind of counter for. Perhaps I'll listen
to your confession in the courtroom. Your trial, of course, will be
short and decisive."Snape fell back against
his uncomfortable bed after that Harry Potter left his room. How
Potter had known he kept the counter to veritaserum in his blood
vessels, Snape would never know. But it seemed all of his secrets
would be out within hours, assuming the Potter brat wasn't
overstating his own capabilities.Severus didn't think
the kid was. If anything, Severus Snape still thought he might be
underestimating the little urchin.





--------




Harry and the Magic FactoryChapter 18X-c-X-c-X-c-XHarry shook the hand of
both of the exhibition duelers. The "charms only" demonstration
had been enormously fun to watch. The whole thing had taken more
than twelve minutes; an exceptionally long time given the average
skill level involved. But it was a stretch to the imagination to
utilize only charms in an offensive way.Levitation, silencing,
and inverted bubble-headed charms were a given, as were various kinds
of confounding, banishing, and summoning charms (attempting to summon
the opponent, his wand, his glasses, or even his undergarments was
highly effective and amusing) but the most useful realm for
charms-only dueling was cooking/gardening charms. In the duel Harry
had seen offensive use of a mind-boggling array of seemingly
'inoffensive' charms: vigorous cleansing of someone's face;
gardening charms that sprayed dragon dung over a wide area (useful
for trying to blind someone); blasting away at an opponent with
vigorous streams of water; coating an opponent in dye; attempting to
sear an opponent like a steak with a grilling charm; coating an
opponent in fast-drying cement and blasting it with water; throwing
vegetable peeling and cleaning charms around…"Not sure I'll look
at dinner quite the same way, again," Harry muttered to himself.It was time for the
start of the third round of duels: the round of twelve. Harry had
eleven brief duels to blast through in the next forty or fifty
minutes. He was planning on testing out some new ideas, especially
silent casting that created no visible magical presence. No streaks
of light, nothing to warn that a spell was incoming.He hoped his opponents
would appreciate the work he'd put in designing these new
variations.Harry wandered back
toward the smaller dueling rings. Then he listened for the first
draws of the round: "Moody and Black. Derwent and Lestrange. 
Karkaroff and Potter…"Harry stopped listening
after that. Igor was always interesting to duel, but he'd sat out
last year's tournament for some unexplained reason.Harry walked to his
assigned dueling ring and prepared. For Karkaroff, Harry would use
straight and overwhelming power. He'd save the newly designed
effects for someone who could appreciate stealth and subtlety.Igor entered the ring. 
He carried his seventy years well, still. Karkaroff prepared for the
count."Three. Two. One."
 The spells began flying fast. Harry redirected many of them; two of
them he turned completely back on Karkaroff. The vassal felt the
sting of each. Harry launched into a pummeling line of silent,
wandless casting. Freezing one of Karkaroff's fingers; heating
another one up. Petrifying one of his feet; and sending a shocking
burst of pure pain into another.Karkaroff escalated. 
He sent a half dozen cutting and bludgeoning hexes toward Harry. 
Harry just turned them all away, each of them finding a permanent
home in the protective wards around the ring. Karkaroff got nastier
still, but he wasn't moving at all. He just stood at his end of
the ring like a giant lump, a very easy target.So Harry escalated his
attacks. He started multiple-casting.Instantly one of
Karkaroff's hands was an undersized wing. He slumped toward the
ground because his center of gravity shifted so quickly. And then
Karkaroff felt three more spells impact. He felt a suffocation curse
tear at his airway. The pain from his midsection suggested he was
suffering from a chest-crushing spell – or maybe a pain curse that
had hit him near his sternum. And he fell to the ground because of a
tripping jinx.His wand fell from his
partially frozen, partially overheated left hand. He looked like a
muggle science project gone awry.Harry summoned away the
man's wand, bound him, and then released his transfigurations and
curses.Thirty-one seconds,
good but not a great response. Karkaroff was better at handling pain
than he had been before. He was still training. Good.X-c-X-c-X-c-XAmelia Bones had never
seen people move like this – or spells fly with that kind of speed
or variety.Her Aurors – the ones
she'd trained and supported, the ones who had abandoned their
principles and mostly fallen into line with the encroaching darkness
within the Ministry – would have been slaughtered to a man if they
went up against wizards like these.She smiled. It was a
marvel to watch Alastor Moody against his second opponent, a Wilhelm
JiggerAlastor was dueling
with two wands, as was his specialty, and he was really moving,
leaping, jumping, and rolling around, inside that circle. He'd
only been hit a few times. And that Jigger was really pumping out
the magic.She watched the short,
three minute duel with awe. Alastor was using defensive techniques
she'd never seen before. He was actually redirecting already cast
spells and crashing them into the shields surrounding the duel. And
his offensive spells were things she'd never heard of. He only
spoke the incantation for one of every three spells he cast, but she
couldn't identify a single one of them."What have they done
here? How can they have advanced so far in just fifteen years?"More than one citizen
of the Potter Estate heard her comment and smiled. They knew the
answer; it was for Amelia to discover the truth for herself.She watched Moody fell
his opponent using a flurry of non-lethal spells. She could see him
ratcheting up his combat easily, switch from tripping and stunning
jinxes to cutting and burning curses. Moody could be lethal. It was
mind boggling.She hadn't really
believed what her niece Susan had told her. She had hoped it
might be true, but she really hadn't believed it. But, being here,
seeing all of this. Her mind was in turmoil. Moody could take on –
and defeat – and entire twelve-person company of her Aurors now. 
Any of these duelists she'd seen could defeat or kill at least four
or six of her best trained Aurors."What stops people
with this much power from taking over Britain," she muttered, not
quite to herself.It was a comment on
herself and on the culture she'd grown up in that she couldn't
immediately answer her own question. It took a certain kind of evil
to lust after conquest, after all, and a certain kind of reserved
honor to push power towards neutral or even positive ends. In
Amelia's black and white world, all power was used for sinister or
doubtful purposes: Fudge, Umbridge, the Zabinis, and Dumbledore
perhaps most of all.Only in the back of her
mind did a little turn of phrase pop up: "Watch what they do, not
what others say."Amelia Bones wandered
from circle to circle then. She was looking for Dark Arts curses,
for pain curses, for unhealable cutting curses, for signs of
corruption that might have infiltrated the educational systems here. 
But she saw nothing.Still, with an Auror's
zeal, she wandered between the dueling circles looking for evidence. 
She was looking for the lie that would prove all this, the idea, the
stories her niece had told her, all the high idealism – she was
looking for the lie to prove all this false.X-c-X-c-X-c-XBracus Snape was seated
in the last seat in the last row of the small room where his father
would be tried and sentenced. He was wearing a cloak over his head
and face. He wanted to hear and see without his presence possibly
influencing his father's words. A lot of the crud in his head had
been cleared out in the last few days, like a rotted carcass swept
away in a rainstorm.The room wasn't very
full, just a few interested souls, a few who knew the Snape name from
before the creation of the Potter Estate, a judge, the jury of seven
citizens, and an absent defendant. One last person came in before
the door behind them all sealed. He was Bracus' healer, or at
least the apprentice who had performed most of Bracus' treatment.Diggory, one of the
families nearly ended in the war. Hmm, Bracus was recalling more and
more nowadays. His father had mentioned them a handful of times and
never with any fondness.Bracus heard noises
coming from the front of the strange room. A door opened and three
people came out, Severus Snape and two minders. Severus slumped into
a chair and scowled at everyone and everything in the room.And that was before
anyone felt the Truth-Compelling Wards snap into place throughout the
room. Even Bracus suddenly wanted to make a full confession about
every infraction of the rules he'd ever committed – and that was
quite a few.Severus went ghastly
pale and seemed like he was having trouble breathing.The judge sitting at a
table across from Bracus' father just rolled his eyes. "Let's
get this underway. My name is Teodor McFusty and I am the jurist for
this proceeding. Today we will be trying Severus Snape for a variety
of crimes, first as a liege man to the late Tom Riddle, secondarily
for his attack on the Potter Emporium at Diagon Alley, and thirdly
for his abuse of his son which led the son to commit his crimes while
here."Bracus hadn't
expected that last part. He wanted to curl up in his chair and die. 
At least no one knew that he was in the room at the present moment. 
It was just mortifying. But, perhaps, Bracus might gain something in
listening to his father's explanations. Never apologies, rarely
explanations, but Bracus knew that these people and their wards would
force Severus to speak."The truth wards are
in effect, so none of us – jurist, jury, witness, or defendant –
may lie inside this space. Mr. Snape, please tell the jury the date
when you received your Dark Mark."Bracus was impressed by
the question. It was designed not for a yes or no answer, which
might have been easier to lie about. It asked for specific
information that would quickly confirm Snape's role as a Death
Eater.Severus struggled
against the question for a good long while. But eventually, "July
2, 1977" was what he spat out.He'd just convicted
himself. Bracus sighed in relief. He'd been so scared when all
this news had first hit him. He'd believed he really was indebted
for his life to his father and to that Headmaster. But, as the
barriers inside his mind crumbled, Bracus saw what he really was. 
Convenient. Suitable for sacrifice. A pawn in an idiot's chess
match. Utterly reprehensible."And what specific
methods did you use to avoid becoming a vassal to Tom Riddle?"Snape was so confused
by the question he didn't try to fight it."None, of course. I
didn't fight it. Anyone who didn't want the mark would die when
it was applied; it was the Dark Lord's cruelest method of killing
someone. It took hours for the person to finally expire if they
truly didn't want the mark.""So," Jurist
McFusty continued, "you wanted to receive the Dark Mark?"Severus nodded."Tell us what you had
to do for your Initiation, Mr. Snape."Severus was back to
scowling now. He resisted the truth wards for a long time before he
finally spat out an answer. "I burned down a house with four
Muggles inside it."Bracus felt that his
breakfast was about to come back up. It was so much worse knowing
the truth than he'd expected. How could anyone? A house? 
Defenseless people burned to death, because of his father, because of
that hopped-up halfblood Tom Riddle…"And how many of them
were children?"The answer was
instantaneous. "Three of them."Bracus stopped
breathing for a second. How could this man have ever been a father?"Moving on, please
explain the poison you developed to kill the Oompahs, or house elves,
employed by the Potter Emporium."Severus spoke for a few
minutes on the concoction, delivering more than enough information to
fully confirm his guilt. Jurist McFusty asked several follow on
questions before he moved on to the final line of questioning."Describe the effects
of the indoctrination potions you used on your son, Bracus."Severus sat, unmoving,
in his chair until he appeared to have suffered a silent stroke. 
Finally, the cumulative efforts of the wards forced Severus into an
answer that no one liked."The potions that I
used, and that Albus Dumbledore helped me to refine, were traditional
for the Prince family. I was subjected to many of them as was my
mother, Eileen. They make it advantageous for a family member to
learn the family history, to adopt the family credo, and to observe
the family's political and ethical beliefs…"The Jurist stopped
Snape at this point. "Explain what you mean by 'make it
advantageous,' Mr. Snape.""Well, you feel no
pain when you're following the family's guidelines. When you
attempt to think otherwise, it's rather unpleasant. Nausea, pain,
in severe cases temporary blindness…"The smattering of folks
in the room were not pleased by this revelation."And did you
accompany this indoctrination potion with other means of
reinforcement? Physical means?"Snape nodded. "Of
course, the potion isn't strong enough on its own. Don't you
know anything about pureblood practices?""Enlighten the jury…"And, with that, Severus
forgot everything he knew about self preservation. He laid out the
entire schema: how to corrupt and destroy an innocent mind in
forty-seven steps. Most of them were gruesome to a fault."…and if the child
isn't sufficiently cowed by being placed under the Cruciatus, then
one progressed to illusions of others under Cruciatus, friends,
favorite relatives, favorite pets… yes, pets seem to work
especially well with the very youngest children, think they're
supposed to be the master, supposed to protect their own pets… so
they end up giving over their own souls to protect their illusions of
pets being tortured, yet it's only a very strong willful child who
needs to progress this far down the path… of course, Bracus was
such a child, a delightful, sweet, cheerful beast until he was four,
still asking questions at the age of seven, a particularly difficult
child to reign in…"Here Jurist McFusty
stopped the testimony. He looked positively ill."Mr. Snape, we've
heard enough now of your family's traditions. We've also heard
that you have nothing to say in mitigation of your work with the
Death Eaters or your attack on the Oompahs. Do you have anything to
say for yourself regarding your treatment of your son?"The wards in the room
wouldn't let Severus lie. So he remained silent."Fair enough. The
charges have been read and the evidence heard, members of the jury,
please commence your deliberation."A silencing ward
rippled up and blocked the words of the jurors from everyone else. 
But Bracus Snape didn't care. He was still shivering and trying to
keep from crying out in pain. All those things his father had
said, all those things done to him. Just listening to his father
admit these things had further torn down the memory charms Bracus had
forced upon him. As Snape discussed these horrid practices, Bracus
could suddenly remembered what everything looked like, what it felt
like. He could remember months when all the little animals near
Prince Manor seemed to undergo horrible torment whenever Bracus set a
foot out of line. Even if it was an illusion, it was still
horrifying.Bracus had everything
he needed now. He knew the measure of his father. He would neither
forget nor forgive. No, he'd do his father one better. He'd
simply ignore his father, the brutalizer of his youth. He'd
embrace life as a squib and ignore everything that Snape and
Dumbledore had tortured into him.What better vengeance
than to silently destroy a man's plans, to end his family's
horrible practices toward children? To be as well adjusted and happy
as possible in light of his upbringing… That was revenge.The Jurist silenced the
room again. The Jury had completed its deliberations. As a group
they stood up and said, "Guilty on all counts."That was when Severus
woke back up. He fought off some of the effects of the truth wards,
the powerful spells that had compelled him to tell the whole truth of
his situation, even if it was against his own self interest."How can that be a
trial? You asked me twelve questions…there was no Wizengamot, no
barristers, no other people testifying other than myself. I demand
true justice," he shouted, before Jurist McFusty silenced him."Justice here is
swift, accurate, and fair, Mr. Snape. We need no witnesses other
than yourself under the influence of the truth wards. We need no
adversarial process as you described because it only introduces lies
into the process. You yourself were given an opportunity to mitigate
your crimes but were unable to tell us something truthful. And, as
Lord Potter told you, all Death Eaters, plus any who would attack us
directly, fall under our jurisdiction. You will remain silent as I
describe the penalties for your crimes, Mr. Snape."Bracus swallowed. He
hated his father, hated him with every atom of his existence. But he
hoped his father would live. He hoped that these people would leave
his father his life, and only his life. Bracus wanted his father to
live, to remember, and to feel pain for another hundred years or
longer. He wanted his father to know how much Bracus was going to
reject the Prince-family traditions.Jurist McFusty looked
at Snape. "For accepting the Dark Mark of Tom Riddle, you are made
vassal to Lord Potter. Your assets, holdings, titles, inventions,
and patents now all belong to him. Your life also belongs to him,
although he may further assign you as he wishes…"Bracus sighed. It
wasn't a death penalty."…a full recounting
of all your Death Eater activities will be taken so that reparations
may be made to your victims. For your crime of attacking the Oompahs
of Potter Emporium, you are convicted and will be turned over to them
in due course…"Bracus hadn't even
thought of the house elves getting justice. Did they have a form of
capital punishment for attacks against them? Anxiety built up again
inside Bracus."…and, for your
brutal attacks against your son, Bracus, you will make full
reparations with the only remaining asset you possess. Your magic
will be stripped from you and given to your son…"Bracus started choking
on his own spit. It was only the swift action of that Diggory fellow
that kept Bracus from dying right then. Diggory gave Bracus two
swift thumps to his back. "Thank you," he muttered after he was
human again.Magic. He never
thought he'd have magic. It was, in theory, possible for his own
core to refill with magic. But it sounded like his core itself was
damaged. Now… to possess his father's magic. Bracus didn't
know what to think.Severus Snape, of
course, did know how to react. His howls and screams were completely
silent as he was still under a silencing spell. Vicious streaks of
tears lit up his abnormally pale face.The Jurist ordered the
room cleared so that further interrogation, and reparations, could be
made. Bracus felt Diggory's hand when Diggory pulled him from the
room. "It wasn't what I expected either, Bracus," Cedric said.
 "I'm sorry for what he did to you. And sorry for what seems the
only way to give you back your magic. But I know you, the real you,
well enough to hope you'll make good use of this very rare gift."The pair talked as they
returned to the room where Bracus Snape was staying. Cedric had a
lot of things to tell Bracus.X-c-X-c-X-c-XColin Creevey was
having the time of his life. His younger brother was here. His
camera was here. And he was taking some incredible photographs that
no one would ever believe. Not least of all that rag, the Daily
Prophet.Luna Lovegood was
talking to the other Apprentices when Colin showed up in their little
grouping near the front of the largest dueling circle. "…Daddy
was so bemused by what the Prophet kept printing about me and all of
you that he actually decided to shelve our issue on the eleven
varieties of Snorkacks. We'd managed to collect pictures of all
but the Crumple Horned variety, too. But, he'll put that issue out
soon. And he had so many new readers now…""I was so angry,"
Colin said. "They made up all these quotes attributed to me. They
described things we'd never seen. Like saying I was appalled by
what I saw of the treatment of house elves here, beaten to within an
inch of their lives. I can't believe they'd just start lying
like that."Luna looked
surprisingly 'with it' upon hearing Colin's words. "They've
been making up stories – and hiding others – forever. I think
the Ministry actually owns a part of the paper. And that
goblin-eating Fudge certainly has dossiers on all their staffers and
editors. Tiny little man pulling strings on even smaller
marionettes, right?"Fred and George smiled.
 They knew that there was more to this Luna than their sister, Ginny,
ever saw. Quite a bright girl, perhaps even mischievous.Susan Bones spoke up
then, "My aunt couldn't even control what they decided to print. 
She'd haul them into court when they libeled someone, but then
they'd get pardoned or something. That Fudge and his cluster of
advisors, oooh, they make me so mad. My aunt's a smart woman but
Fudge treated her better than a secretary. As if she hadn't been
an Auror for forty-two years; as if she couldn't crisp his arse in
a duel any minute of any day…""Making these people
out to be renegades or proto-insurgents or what-not. It's more
slander and libel. There's no Dark Lord so there has to be some
kind of evil enemy lurking around to ensure the Ministry can keep up
the vile things it's doing. Even they need an excuse and that
misnomer for journalism called the Daily Prophet is happy to provide
it. And, of course, the sheep who read it just believe it. Even the
ones who shop at the Potter Emporium badmouth the place when they're
not inside it. And that 'security station' they set up outside
the place. Don't they have a single lick of subtlety in that whole
building," Luna was on a roll.Then a massive sound
filled the air. The new Apprentices figured the final round of the
Dueling Tournament was now underway. The first and second placers
would duel to ensure that they were in their proper ranks.Harry Potter versus
Alastor Moody.Colin had his camera
out. His brother Dennis, soon to be of the Potter School, was
pointing at everything he saw. Colin kept snapping away even though
most of the duel was actually invisible. Invisible even to that
bizarre magical eye Moody wore.For Harry Potter's
first action after bowing to his opponent was to completely disappear
from view. Colin captured a wonderful image of Moody's magical eye
spinning like a child's top trying to see where he'd gotten to. 
He obviously hadn't left the dueling ring – as that would have
signaled a victory for Moody – but the blasted eye couldn't spot
the young man through his invisibility.More than one witch or
wizard thought, 'How is that possible?'Then Colin's camera
caught the most incredible images.Moody's magical eye
summoned from out of his head. Landing just outside the magical
barrier.Moody hit by seven
curses at the exact same time. He clutched at his guts while his
hair sprouted tulips and he began vomiting slugs.The Moody hit by a
number of seemingly invisible spells, to more gasps from the
audience. Moody's clothes changed colors, his feet were
transfigured into tentacles, and his wand hand was encased in a giant
block of ice.Finally, Harry had made
himself visible once again, fashioned ropes to bind Moody, and
stunned the poor man. Then Harry quickly put the man to rights:
returning his body to its original shape, returning the man's eye,
and finally restoring the man's consciousness."Blast and double
blast," Moody shouted. "Couldn't do a sodding thing. Constant
vigilance, my pockmarked arse. I just curled up like a scared
schoolgirl, Potter. Excellent work. Intimidating as all hell."Colin captured pictures
of it all. Harry maintained his number one ranking. Twenty-two
seconds in all. Moody, of course, got a five minute break before
defending his second place ranking against Sirius Black.And Harry walked off
the stage after smiling, bowing, and nodding to his audience. And he
just disappeared again."Now that's magic,"
George said.





--------




Harry and the Magic FactoryA/N: I had an
interesting review from the last chapter that noted that Harry didn't
really have an equal opponent to fight and it seemed as though he was
too powerful. Let me explain my view: Harry is not fighting a single
Dark Lord in this story (not any more), he is fighting wizarding
prejudice and corruption that has built up over a thousand-plus years
of history, in addition to dismantling the barriers between a tiny
wizarding world and six billion muggles. It's Harry versus the
system (as personified by people like Snape, Dumbledore, Umbridge,
Fudge, and others). Taken this way, Harry's magical strength will
get him through a duel with any hundred witches and wizards, but it's
no where near enough to hold back six billion opponents should they
organize against him. So, in future chapters, expect more politics
and alliance forming to emerge. Harry's power, wealth, economic
and political acumen, plus the people he works with will have the time
of their lives trying to pull off their long range plans. Enjoy!Chapter 19X-c-X-c-X-c-XJanuary 2, 1998Sirius Black looked
rough when he met the Apprentices outside the small building where
they were all staying. He'd wanted to remain in bed a couple more
hours, but his remaining joy and sense of obligation had propelled
him out of bed.Sirius couldn't
actually get the smile off his face. He'd face Bellatrix twice and
beaten her twice. He faced Karkaroff and obliterated him. He'd
personally knocked both Nott and Avery from competing in the finals. 
And, in his coup de grace, he'd faced Moody three times, lost
twice, and still come away the winner in their final match. Sirius
Black held the second place ranking for the next year!Sirius stared at the
tired, eager faces in front of him. He'd seen Fred and George
throw themselves into duels yesterday afternoon, once the formal
tournament had concluded. They needed a lot of work, but Sirius
imagined that both of them could be brought to Mastery level within
three years, assuming they wanted to put in the work. The other
surprise had been the vacant-looking Luna Lovegood. She didn't
have much in the way of a repertoire, but she was fast, accurate, and
very cunning.All of them had
partaken of the food, and the dueling, and the drinking. All of them
looked like they'd prefer to still be asleep. But, today was the
beginning!"All right. Boring
stuff first, you lot. Paperwork to get you into the Apprenticeship
Program. Then signing up for accounts with the Potter Trust. Then
we'll get into the specific details of each of your
apprenticeships. You all get to share this house for the next few
years, so feel free to decorate it up to your standards. Community
meals are held in the village every day, but don't expect Oompahs
to do all the work, you know. Very busy. You'll be on a rota, so
you'd better dust off your cooking skills unless you want everyone
else to mock you for burning water or some such stupidity."Neville blanched. He'd
actually done that, ruined a pot by boiling all the water out of it
in his absentmindedness. And he'd never yet produced a
satisfactory result from a meal he'd prepared.Fred and George smiled.
 The meals they'd produce would be highly – educational – for
everyone involved. They'd taste just fine, but have some
interesting, lingering effects.Sirius could almost
read their minds. And he didn't quash their glee at having so many
guinea pigs. They'd learn about exactly how many Pranks Masters
there were in the Potter Estate if they took up this cause. They'd
come out the worst of it, but it'd be fun for everyone involved."Here we are. It's
just a one page contract for each of you. Very simple, I think. 
Some of the legal types here wanted this ridiculously long thing that
no one could understand. Harry said no. Simple, short rules that
apply to both sides. Let's review it together before we have you
all sign on."Sirius handed out the
remarkably short legal document.'I am freely joining
the Potter Estate Apprenticeship Program. I remain free to leave the
program at any time, keeping all of my knowledge and accumulated pay.
 I understand that the program will last for three years or until I
achieve my Potter Estate mastery, whichever comes first. I
understand that I may become a citizen of the Potter Estate once I
achieve my mastery.Sirius read it out
loud, stopping after each sentence to ask if anyone had any
questions. So far, so easy.'I accept my
commitment of thirty working hours per week, for which I will be
compensated 100 galleons per week.'This brought about a
couple of exclamations of shock. "Are they serious?" "That's
a ton of money for just thirty hours a week." "If we get paid
that much, how much will housing cost us?""Okay," Sirius
said, "let's cover that part. I know it's a lot of money on
your side of the curtain. Probably the hundred galleons is a monthly
wage at the Ministry of Magic for a junior staffer. But here, it's
what we pay interns every week. Your housing is complementary here,
by the way, as none of you will be allowed to build or own homes
until you become a citizen. So, you'll spend some on food, on
entertainment, on clothing, but I hope most of it goes into savings. 
Questions?""How can you afford
to pay that much," Susan Bones asked."Like I said, it
really isn't a lot. Each of you will be doing very valuable work
for us, it'll produce new knowledge and wealth for all of us. You
should definitely share in that, Susan…"Fred and George knew an
excellent deal when they heard one. And Sirius had been mostly
right. They'd each drawn about one hundred twenty galleons a month
for their work at the Committee on Experimental Charms. Now they'd
each receive four hundred galleons per month, and not have to worry
about housing. It was a dream."I accept my
commitment to study twenty hours per week at Potter School or through
independent study or through tutors. I will meet with my work and
schooling advisors at least four times per year to define and revise
mutually agreeable plans; I recognize that I may ask the head of the
Apprenticeship Program for new work or schooling advisors at any
time. I will begin my mastery-level research no later than one year
after signing this contract. I understand that after the rules and
laws of the Potter Estate are explained to me, I am bound to them for
the length of my Apprenticeship."That was short. Most
of the Apprentices were turning the sheets over to read the rest, the
stuff on the back. Only the back was blank."Questions," Sirius
asked."That's it," was
the first one asked by Colin. "It's not even ten sentences.""Told you it was a
simple thing. You have two responsibilities to us: work and school. 
We have responsibilities back to you: giving you advice, providing
your salary and housing, and helping you to complete your Mastery and
your Apprenticeship. Going into more detail than the level of common
sense just opens up silly loopholes and gives everyone a headache. 
So, more questions?""When do we go over
the laws," Susan Bones asked."I think Remus Lupin
will cover them with you this afternoon. It's also a fairly short
list. Anyway, you shouldn't sign this contract until after you've
gone through the course on rules and laws. Safer that way…""And what about the
work we'll be doing…""And the research
area…""Can we change them,
if they don't agree with us?"Fred and George had
dopey grins on their faces as they tried out their twin-speak in
front of the small group."I dare say we'll
probably find more fields where you don't agree with them than
areas where everything fits together nicely," Sirius responded with
a smile. "That said, it's all negotiable. You'll learn about
your initial assignments very soon. We ask that you give them a
shot, hang in for a month, and then we can renegotiate if it comes to
that."Neville was the one who
asked the most unexpected question. "Will you let us learn to duel
like that, like what we saw yesterday?"Sirius just smiled. He
was sore, but still quite pleased after his second place finish. 
"Anyone and everyone here can learn to do those things, if they
choose. The Potter School has great material – even recorded
classes you can watch at your leisure, sort of like in a pensieve, if
you're familiar with them – on every subject, but our best area
is probably offensive and defensive magics. Tons of awesome stuff
and you can't even imagine the things that Harry teaches, of course
that'll be a long way off, most of that stuff requires you to be
fairly adept at wandless, no incantations or wand movements for any
of it…"That started a lively
conversation as they took a slightly more indepth tour around the
village. This one was focused on how to survive there. They saw the
Potter Greengrocer; the Victual Shoppe; the sickeningly sweet
interior of the Patisserie and Tea House; the massive Blott's
Bookstore; the Potter Haberdashery; and seven other stores of general
use. The final stop on the tour was the Potter Trust."Inside to set up
accounts, all of you. It's not ever a good idea to keep goblins
waiting…"X-c-X-c-X-c-XHarry walked up to the
small room they'd set up for Amelia Bones and knocked on the door. 
This was the first moment he'd had to discuss the former
politician's situation with her.She was up, dressed,
wary, but ready to start the day. She did not reveal her surprise at
the particular person who'd come to greet her this morning."I thought we'd
take a walk, Madam Bones, and have some breakfast. I think there is
a great deal we should discuss together.""I must thank you for
the opportunity. I've been thinking of different options to get
myself out of a bad situation, have been planning for a long time,
but when Susan came home and told me the things she did… Well, I
knew it was something I had to see for myself. I hope we can find
some way to work together, because my French is fairly rusty and I
don't fancy having to learn it on the streets of Lyon or Nice if
you kick me out."Harry laughed and shook
his head. "We don't generally kick anyone out. If you don't
like it, or don't fit in, I expect you'll kick yourself out." 
Harry looked closely at the much older witch. "However, based on
your record, I'd say you could do well here if you wanted."He took them both to
the Patisserie and Tea House. They had a light breakfast and kept
the conversation even lighter while they were in public together. 
Harry gave Amelia Bones a brief history of what they'd put
together, including some of the things they'd done in regards to
the Ministry, which shocked Amelia as she hadn't known any of it. 
Amelia explained in broad strokes her basic disillusionment with her
former employer."I understand exactly
your concerns, Amelia. We've designed our form of government to
ensure a lot of those problems can't happen here…""Impossible," she
said. "The head of government will always be mucking about, may
not be completely corrupt like some people I know, but the head of a
government will favor his friends with privileges and the like…"Harry smiled. "You'd
like the Mastery thesis I wrote for my Law and Politics program. I
talked a lot about wanting an orderly government that was kept
reasonably free of corruption and ill influence…"Amelia sort of smirked
at him. She was judging him by his chronological age. She didn't
really know what he could do, other than duel in an insane fashion."Well, judge for
yourself. We have a weak executive, a strong but heavily term
limited legislative branch, and an independent judiciary, all tied
together with checks and balances."Amelia nodded. In
theory it sounded fine, but the devil was always in the details. 
Like the Wizengamot was sound in principle, a hereditary body made up
of experienced witches and wizards who passed laws, with a smaller
subset given over to also adjudicating criminal prosecutions, but it
has been as corrupt as a bronze galleon for as long as Amelia had
known it."So, what does this
weak executive do?"Harry took another bite
of his morning roll then answered, "Let's start with what the
executive can't do. He can't appoint anyone to any legislative,
judicial, or minor executive offices – nor ambassadors. He can't
declare or wage war; he is not immediately the commander of any army,
either. He can't present a budget for approval." Harry thought
for a second. "Yes, that's the main points. From comparative
government study, those are pretty much the main ways heads of
government seem to get into trouble: appointments, money, and
warfare.""That's an awful
lot of power reserved to the legislative branch, then…""True," Harry said.
 "But the executive retains some powers. He maintains right to
speak on any topic, so he can use informal pressure to make
legislation happen or to modify a bad bill into an acceptable one. 
He can veto any legislation, including any appointment made by the
legislature, and it comes with a line item power so he can strike out
individual lines in a budget or individual provisions within a bill. 
That keeps legislators on their toes; the current executive has a
definite mean streak when it comes to marking down legislation to
keep things brief, coherent, and fair. He also has the right to
pardon anyone, plus the right to dissolve the entire legislative
council – but not any particular person on it – should it become
inept or corrupt. But his main method of controlling the makeup of
the government and its success is his right to supervise the creation
and enrollment of new citizens. It's strictly merit-based here,
Amelia. Two citizens can have a child here, but the child isn't a
fully fledged citizen until he or she passed all the requirements. 
So, no one will ever be able to run for the council unless they first
impress the executive during their proving, in their earning of a
mastery."Amelia was now thinking
in two opposite directions. First, it sounded like the executive had
virtually no real authority, but could do a lot with the few tools
available to it. Second, it sounded like it might be rather
challenging for Amelia to get herself a permanent place in this kind
of system. But, she'd hold her specific questions about her
situation for a more private venue.Amelia was formulating
a probing question about the way an executive could accomplish
anything with such limited powers when a man popped up by Harry'
side and launched himself into a tirade. Amelia couldn't make much
of what he was saying."…it's a travesty
that that man was only sentenced with such light punishments, Harry. 
I mean, we should name him an enemy of the state or something. Have
you turn him into a piece of statuary to go out in front of
Government House. That's put the fear of Merlin into them…"Bilirubin Anders was
back making trouble again. First about Bracus, now about his father,
Severus. And the man really didn't know when to shut up.Harry quickly finished
off his tea. He scowled slightly at his overly hawk-like Council
member. "Mr. Anders, I think the case is settled. He became a
vassal and was remanded over to the justice of the people he actually
intended to attack. I suspect the Oompahs will treat him far harsher
than you could ever imagine." That statement got Bilirubin Anders
to shut up. Then Harry stood up. "Amelia, if you're finished,
perhaps we could continue our discussion in my office at the School?"Amelia breathed a bit
easier. She knew what it was like to be pigeonholed while in public.
 She didn't know why Harry had just been sought out, but she was
glad it was over.The pair got up and
walked out of the shop while Bilirubin just frowned and boiled in his
own frustration. "…but it's necessary," he shouted after
them."Every group has at
least one like him," Amelia said."A layabout who's
been elected to high office while he breaks all his promises, even
the most inviolable?"Amelia laughed. "Yes,
have you met Cornelius Fudge? You described him perfectly."Amelia told a few Fudge
anecdotes before they arrived at the school. Harry remembered that
it would have a new student today: Dennis Creevey. It made Harry
happy to know they'd done a good job convincing the Chosen. He'd
gotten six Apprentices, a Potter School student, and whatever Amelia
might turn into. Not a bad haul for a first attempt at introducing
one's self to the wider world.Harry ushered Amelia
into the office he shared with Sirius and Remus. It was the large
one that the Apprentices had visited while at the Potter School. 
Amelia was fairly impressed."Now, to finish my
explanation – with no rude people around to crash this meeting –
the legislative council has most of the power. Appointments to
governmental positions, drafting legislation, drawing up the budget,
supervising military affairs (although that's still hypothetical,
as we've not needed to launch anything like that), signing
treaties, sending out ambassadors, assigning tasks to the executive
(such as having him command an army or something), and impeaching its
own members or the executive or even dissolving the entire charter. 
But any citizen can only serve a single four year term. So, there's
no getting entrenched inside and staying forever and forgetting
yourself there.""Is it safe
entrusting so much power to such a citizen legislature?" Amelia
was genuinely interested now. She was asking honest, rather than
guarded questions. "I barely trust the Wizengamot to make good
laws and some of them had been doing it for forty or fifty years
apiece."Harry nodded. "I
think you'll find that most citizens here take a more active
interest in the government. First, because it's so new. Second,
because earning citizenship was sufficiently difficult that it
reminds them to be interested and concerned – generally. There are
still a few with their heads in the clouds; or a few with less than
honorable intentions. But we figure out who they are through their
service; and when their term is up, you don't have to listen to
them in that way again. Third, the council appoints the governmental
staff and directs them. The staff is kept honest by the council;
and, in turn, they suggest useful and necessary laws for the council
to consider. Fourth. We have banned lobbyists; we have also banned
formal political parties. However, any citizen may speak up on any
issue or may try to encourage any other people to adopt his views. 
But they may not abdicate their own work in convincing a person by
paying someone else to do it for them. Likewise, candidates cannot
hide behind a meaningless party name and slogan. They run on their
accomplishments, or their promises for the future, or whatever
imaginative distractions they can conjure up during the elections. 
Or they don't run at all."Amelia was definitely
interested – and skeptical."These are wonderful,
almost utopian ideals, Harry. But in the practical world where we
all live, how can you be sure they are true. It's one thing to say
lobbyists are banned, we had laws similar to that, but then Bagnold
and Fudge listened to everything that that advisor of there's
said, that Lucius Malfoy…"Harry frowned a bit at
this. "I know who you're talking about: Malfoy and several
others went far beyond lobbying. The Ministers for Magic under your
old system listened to these advisors because these advisors
lined their banks accounts with gold galleons to ensure their ideas
were listened to…""How do you know? I
always suspected," Amelia said, "but I could never prove
anything…""Lucius confessed it
in one of our court sessions. His bank records from Gringotts
confirmed it…""How?" She
spluttered. "How could you get that silver-tongued devil to say
the first thing? Or the goblins to give up records? They'd rather
eat their own young than do that…"Harry frowned. "Do
not joke about goblins, Madam. We have been in a negotiated
concordance with them for more than nine years now. I'd hate to
have to turn you over to their courts for breaking some of the treaty
provisions."Amelia stopped talking,
even stopped thinking. This young man was serious, deadly serious. 
That just brought up a feeling of dread – and even more questions
to ponder. How did anyone negotiate a truce with goblins without
first conquering them in battle? It just didn't happen. Binns –
when he was still alive – had been quite strenuous in proving that
point over and over again while Amelia was at Hogwarts.The room was silent for
a long time as both considered their positions. Harry wanted more
people experienced in law and politics among his citizens. Amelia
wanted a safe place for her and her niece to live, preferably
someplace challenging. But neither was sure of the person they were
speaking with. For Amelia, the young man across the way from her was
radiating power, but he also seemed to be delighted with some odd
ideas. Like preaching an utopian form of government. Or turning
over a wizard for justice from goblins. What kind of show was he
running here?Amelia began speaking
first. She wasn't going to back down or apologize for a slight she
didn't know she'd made. She was going to push forward."So, I imagine
there's a judicial branch, too. But it doesn't sound like any
rights have been reserved for the common citizen. Do you work from
the Magna Carta…"Harry picked up on
Amelia's game before she even finished her first sentence. 
Avoidance. He'd let her get away with it for today. But she had
to understand. This was a different place with vastly different
rules."We have a code of
rules and privileges that apply to every citizen plus those children
who live here who haven't yet achieved their mastery. But we also
distinguish between citizens and others. The Lord has a citizen's
rights, but many additional responsibilities such as serving as the
executive of the government. Vassals to the lord have no right to
vote or participate in government until they are released from their
vassalage. And residents are those granted permission by the
executive or Lord to be here and prepare for their mastery and for
citizenship.""Why differentiate at
all?""We needed a status
for the captured Death Eaters. We removed the influence of their
Dark Marks through magical contracts – you know, the old Liege laws
– but I couldn't trust them to be good citizens nor did I want to
lock them away and leave them a drain on everyone else. This way
they are productive and reasonably happy, even though they should be
in Azkaban under the system imposed by your old government…."He'd slipped and said
"I" again many times. Did he think he was that important? Did
this boy have delusions of grandeur?"Explain the
protections, then. I'm interested to know what rights a citizen
retains under this government of yours.""Rights and
obligations, Madam. Can't get one without the other. The Basic
Law is fairly simple. Rule 1. Every citizen is guaranteed the right
to study magic, and to practice it in such ways that do not interfere
with the rights of other living, sentient beings. There are no
limits to the use of magic or other physical means when it is used in
self-defense, or the defense of another."Amelia thought about
that protection. It was far and above what the Ministry permitted. 
Unforgivables were Unforgivable, even against would-be attackers. 
Portkeys were monitored and the Ministry could punish witches and
wizards for using unregistered ones. But it should be like this
rule; witches and wizards should have the whole world of magic to
explore, so long as they didn't use it against others. She was
tempted to smile."Rule 2. Every
citizen is guaranteed the right to a full, lifelong education on any
topic magical or otherwise that is equally available to all citizens
and free-of-charge."That almost knocked
Amelia back in her seat. Logically it made sense. Couldn't have a
meritocracy without guaranteeing that everyone could achieve the
required results. Much of the problem with the Ministry was that,
from birth, students were treated with unequal regard based upon
their heritage or their wealth or any number of other factors. But
guaranteeing a free education helped to ensure that everyone could
compete, regardless of their parents' wealth or other flukes of
nature."Rule 3. Every
citizen is guaranteed the freedoms of mind, speech, movement, and
association to the extent that they do not impede or injure any other
living, sentient being. Rule 4. Every citizen accused of a crime is
guaranteed a trial by an impartial judge and jury of fellow citizens;
if convicted, every citizen is guaranteed penalties that are neither
excessively harsh nor cruel; only for the taking of a life of a
sentient being may the penalty of death be exacted."To her shame, Amelia
knew that the Ministry had promised similar standards of freedom, but
had never let them take root. Not everyone in Azkaban had a fair
trial, but it was hard to reopen cases. And opponents of the ruling
faction in government frequently found their rights to speech and
assembly curtailed by petty, random Ministerial decrees."Rule 5. Every child,
through his or her twenty-first birthday, is guaranteed the full
protections of citizenship, regardless of having earned them; all
citizens swear to help support and protect the children living within
its borders."Listening to that
almost brought tears to Amelia's eyes. She had seen, in her years
as an Auror, every kind of horrible treatment of children. Some had
just plain disappeared; others had been bludgeoned. This sounded
wonderful, but how did they enforce it. It wasn't possible to
protect every child from every person who might wish them harm. 
Amelia was a realist."6. Every citizen
shall be free from abuse, whether verbal, physical, or otherwise,
from theft by force or guile, and from physical harm or death, lest
the full weight of justice bear down upon the law breaker."That sounded like a
very brief code of criminal activities, but Amelia could see how
"theft by force or guile" could describe any number of crimes,
from the robbery of a bank vault to the kidnapping of a child. It
was simple, but she hadn't started digging into their judicial
system."Finally. Rule 7. 
In return for the above rights and all privileges of citizenship,
every citizen swears to come to the defense of every other,
regardless of past grievances or quarrels, to defend the institutions
upon which the government is based, and to fulfill all oaths made in
receiving citizenship; any omission or inaction in regard to this law
is a punishable crime."Amelia sighed. It
sounded wonderful, but it was more utopian tripe. She thought she'd
burst the young man's bubble right now."So how do you
enforce any of it? Must have a hundred Aurors to keep everyone in
line…"Harry shook his head. 
"You don't need people to enforce magical contracts, Amelia. You
can use magic, of course. Every citizen signs a magical
contract reconfirming his or her acceptance of these provisions. The
wards prevent any lethal curses falling on another person, except in
very specific places, like in dueling circles or in training rooms. 
We have wards monitoring the health and safety of all our children. 
We catch other criminals, like thieves, through the use of truth
wards once we detect crimes. And the executive of the government is
tasked with ensuring that the government itself doesn't begin
infringing on the most basic rights: to magic, to education, and to
freedom of mind, speech, and movement. It's almost a sacred trust
for the executive…""He must be a better
person than I am," Amelia said with a heavily sarcastic tone."I like to think I do
a good job, Madam. I designed this system with a lot of help when I
was young. It's been in place for coming on ten years…"Amelia didn't know
what to say. She didn't know if she could believe what she was
hearing now. This man was a head of government? How? Why? She
didn't understand it at all. Nor did she think the form of
government he'd outlined was possible. A weak executive keeping a
strong legislature in check – preposterous. The basic laws sounded
appropriate, but unenforceable. No matter what he said."You will come to
understand a lot about us in the coming days, I think. I've had
this kind of disbelieving conversation with a lot of people over the
years. I think you'll find that we say what we mean here. But it
isn't my job to convince you. No, you'll have to convince
yourself. Talk to anyone you meet. Test it out for yourself…"X-c-X-c-X-c-XGilder Mascot was
walking out the Potter Emporium with his wife behind him. They'd
just done the week's marketing and his wife had found a nice new
robe she was rather pleased with. All in all, a good day.That was until Gilder
found himself flung to the cobbles of Diagon Alley, his hand stepped
on, his wand on the cobbles being crushed under someone's foot.His wife shrieked for a
second before some kind of silencing spell hit her."You'd best be
knowing where it's safe to shop, sir. 'Cause it isn't this
place."Gilder looked up. He
saw an angry face peering down at him. And he saw the work robes of
an Auror, too. Whoever had attacked him was an Auror or had stolen
Auror gear.This was bad. Gilder's
hand throbbed in pain, but his head was even worse. He was afraid;
he was disarmed. He craned to look behind him. It seemed someone
was restraining his wife. Then he saw a flash as the box his wife
was holding flew into the air. Everything came crashing down.The jar of pickled
cauliflowers crashed against the cobbles. The acrid smell of vinegar
assaulted his nose while the Aurors continued to laugh.Gilder Mascot pushed
himself to his feet, grabbed his wife, and quickly vanished from the
Alley. They'd picked the wrong target. No, not Gilder. No, the
Aurors were instilling fear into the would-be visitors of the Potter
Emporium.The Oompahs noticed the
attack. They immediately made up a box to replace the destroyed
produce. And a replacement robe. And, from a secret room in the
back of the store, a new wand that would perfectly match the one that
the customer had just seen destroyed. Few knew that the Oompahs had
wands available for sale. Mostly they were there for emergency use.An Auror attacking a
customer qualified as an emergency.And the goblins
noticed, too. They noticed everything. They took down the date, the
time, the names of the people involved. They transcribed all the
words they'd heard spoken, the comments about how "Dolores" was
stepping up the program. The goblins added it all to their massive
files. They were waiting for the right day to make their stand. They had been waiting for a very, very long time.





--------




Chapter 20X-c-X-c-X-c-XJanuary 9, 1998The team contracted by
the American Ministry of Magic was both grumpy and slightly elated. 
They were one of five teams that dealt with back taxes owed to the
Ministry. And this dumpy old house, large as it was, had just cost
them three days of effort to bring down its wards. There had been
big nasty wards lurking behind and weaved into simplistic ones. The
whole thing had operated in a half dozen different zones, with each
zone independent of the others, requiring them to start from scratch
every time in the ward breaking. Whoever had crafted the damn things
was a certifiable genius and madman, no question.But now they were
inside. They'd do a scouting, see what the assets were in this
obviously magical abode, and then report back. No one had paid taxes
on the place in twelve years, so the taxes outstanding were massive. 
And the building itself wasn't in a desirable part of Philadelphia,
no. It was quite near to one of the warehouse districts, and not one
of the nicer ones.If they had to fix this
place up for sale, assuming there were no assets inside, it wouldn't
even cover the tax bill.The team leader was an
old man named Periculum Fletcher. He'd been doing this kind of
work for four decades. It was a hard life, but it paid well. And
his moral schema didn't seem to mind he was often digging through
the detritus of ruined lives.Periculum tried a
simple unlocking charm on the front door. But it wouldn't open. 
Nor would any of the progressively stronger charms. That was when
Periculum realized it wasn't actually a door. It was a nice bit of
transfiguration, but not an actual door. It took him and his team
thirty minutes to find a section of wall that was actually a door,
but heavily concealed."Paranoid much,"
Periculum muttered to himself. Wards like this plus this kind of
security through misdirection was usually the hallmark of a very dark
structure, a place where adherents to the dark could gather to
practice their more disgusting rites and practices.Periculum had each of
his men perform their strongest curse-detection spells. He didn't
want to walk into a structure like this blind.Periculum crossed the
doorway first. The inside was as dour as the outside. Everything
was covered in nearly an inch of dust. No one had obviously lived
inside here for a long time. Periculum had all of his men remain
with him as they started searching the first floor. With a place
like this, all due caution was required.The rooms went from odd
to strange to utterly puzzling to horrifying in quick succession. 
Each of them had six sets of bunk beds in them. Each of them was
littered with children's clothing. And toys scattered on the
floor. And drawings taped to the walls.Periculum and his team
investigated the drawings. They saw names only mentioned in dark
stories. Diggory, Wood, and a dozen others. The names of the
British War Orphans.Here.They'd been here,
stacked up in rooms like these. Kidnapped, stolen out of Britain
somehow. Warehoused like broken trinkets.But, the problem was
this: they were gone now.Where had they gone to?The team began tearing
the house apart in earnest, not looking for valuables per se, but
more for information.That last room had
shown the signs of a massive battle. There was old blood along one
of the walls and dozens of scorch marks on every other surface. But
who had been fighting? Adults against the children? Periculum
shivered at the thought even though he'd never had children
himself.He pulled out a
darkness detector and set to scanning the room. There was nothing
left. An Avada Kedavra would leave traces for years, but as
Periculum didn't know when this battle had happened, he couldn't
look at his darkness detector's result with happiness.They spent the night
tearing the place apart.It was early the next
morning before one of the people on Periculum's team managed to
break into the most heavily warded room any of them had seen. It was
an office. It was filled to the brim with paperwork of all sorts.And receipts.It showed how the
children had been brought over to America. It showed who had paid
the bribes. It showed that the money funding this whole child
warehouse had come from the family vaults of the orphans themselves.Over and over again the
same names appeared. Dumbledore was the most prominent, as he was
famous in America as well as in his native lands.And, just as
disturbing, all the transactions had stopped more than twelve years
ago. Every one of them. But the records were still here. And the
money stolen from those orphans was still floating around somewhere,
a lot of money, perhaps a million galleons.The people on
Periculum's team were absolutely furious. And, even though they
knew that the American Ministry should have already been notified
about all this, they decided on a more direct form of retribution.Public exposure.Public excoriation.Public repudation.An undeserved
reputation in tatters. Public offices stripped. An evil man finally
recognized for what he was, someone preying on children. What else
had this man and his associated done? What else had the wizarding
world overlooked in its perpetual blindness?Periculum personally
duplicated every scrap of paper in the home. Two of his team members
took vivid disturbing images of the whole place. The worst was from
that scorched room. Blood visible, a severed toy, and scorches on
every surface. Periculum could see the headline in the Salem
Wizarding News: "British War Orphans Found – and Lost Again:
Disturbing Evidence Begs 'Why Were They in America At All?'"Some days it was good
to be blessed an existence without a moral compass. Periculum smiled
a feral grin when he dispatched the information off to journalists
via the fastest courier. And sent a brief, fragmentary, almost
incomprehensible report off to the Ministry via the slowest courier
he could find.It was fun to pit a
slow bureaucracy against a voracious free market business. The
Wizarding Times would descend on this location hours before the
Ministry sought to send any investigators out.Periculum decided it
was time well spent. Maybe some day he'd be acknowledged for his
role in bringing down one of wizarding Britain's most revered –
and craven – wizards.X-c-X-c-X-c-XJanuary 10, 1998Albus Dumbledore
apparated to the beach, as his letter from the Potters had explained.
 He caught sight of the small trail he was supposed to follow. It
really was a beautiful day. The sky was blue, the water was faintly
green. Everything smelled wonderfully of the sea.It was even better than
Albus Dumbledore was about to reassert control over a situation that
had spiraled out of his sphere of influence. Albus was happy; well,
as happy as could be given that Snape had disappeared, along with the
man's home and business. But, Albus pushed those unpleasantries
aside.The man had obviously
done a runner. Albus had, after all, pushed very hard for Snape to
allow his son to visit the folks who ran the Potter Emporium after
that invitation was issued.Oh well. Snape was
gone. The man was truly the epitome of unpleasantness. Albus would
much rather work his wiles on a worthy target. And…the Potters. 
Finally, after all these years. He'd been overjoyed when the
Potter scion had finally managed to attract Lily Potter. Yes, a
pureblood intermarrying with a muggleborn. Better for the genes,
better for the wizard that way.What a child Harry
would be. He'd be, what, seventeen now? The perfect age to come
back into the fold at Hogwarts. Complete his final year, then Albus
could push him towards an appropriate apprenticeship somewhere. 
Depending on the boy's interests, of course. Managing a shop
staffed with house elves wasn't exactly a worthy occupation for the
Potter Family. No. That Albus knew. Potters were leaders; seven
Ministers of Magic had been Potters. And, perhaps this Harry would
be the eighth, but with a powerful man at his back.Albus could spin
stories about how the incompetents at the Ministry were waging war
with his business – and were about to go and completely demolish
it, Albus knew, but he would keep that fact to himself, considering
he had engineered the maneuver himself. What lessons Harry might
learn once this Emporium business was gone! How an incorruptable
presence inside the Ministry was a necessity. How to maneuver within
a bureaucracy, how to determine who was at fault (assuming the truth
never fully escaped). Then, with twenty or thirty years of
cultivation, Harry could be ready. Assuming he listened to reason.Perhaps.Albus spun and respun
plots while he ambled away from the beach and up the narrow pathway. 
He'd been taking the Elixir of Life now for twenty years. He could
extend his life indefinitely, just as his mentor Nicholas Flamel had.
 He had plenty of time to plot and plan.He stopped suddenly
just before he reached the top of the path. There was a delightful
little cottage in the distance. But it wasn't exactly a cottage. 
It radiated warmth and happiness. It even looked a bit, well, like a
house made entirely out of candy.Bizarre.Albus knew dozens of
the muggle fairy tales. A candy house? Here?He pulled out his wand
and began casting spells at the place. There were Muggle-repelling
wards in place, as expected, and a few other basic ones. The house
itself had no magical signature, at least not one Albus could detect.He walked carefully up
to the structure and touched his finger to it. It was squishy. 
Frosting, perhaps?He walked carefully
around the house. There were peppermints and lemon sherbets adorning
all the windows. There were massive bars of chocolate in place of
shutters. The flowers in the small garden behind the cottage/shack
were made of spun sugar. It was Albus' fondest wish to see
something like this. It was even a greater pull than new woolen
socks.Had Harry put this
together for their meeting? Or did the young man also have a sweet
tooth? Or was it just a show of something, wealth perhaps?Albus began
deliberating as he continued his slow walk around the small house. 
When he returned to the front door, he reached out and the door
opened even before Albus touched it.Nice effect, Albus
thought.He cast additional
spells. The inside had been magically expanded and there were a
number of different magical objects inside, but there was nothing
untoward in there.Albus walked inside. 
The small cottage outside gave way to an enormous single room inside.
 It was an impressive space. The candy motif had continued through
into the interior. There were seven large tables pushed up against
the walls, each with massive bowls full of sweets. There were
comfortable chairs decorated in peppermint twist and some in random
polka dots of varying bright colors. There was a row of chandeliers
hanging from the ceiling, each one crafted using different varieties
of translucent sweets. Some were pink, some were yellow, some orange
and green.Albus wandered through
the room sampling some of the treats in the bowls. He found a truly
magnificent lemon sherbet. And wonderful candies called Mars Bars. 
What will those Muggles think of next? Perhaps Harry being in the
merchanting business wasn't a total loss. He could delegate the
business to someone else to run while he listened to Dumbledore's
advice regarding politics.He'd let the
Ministry's little raid tomorrow go off as planned. Good for the
blood, a little anger and defeat. Made people malleable to
suggestion when they were planning their revenge.He walked around the
room sampling additional sweets. Albus had never tried a 'dark
chocolate' before but found he rather enjoyed them. The candied
orange segments, unfortunately, stuck in his teeth. Tasty with an
unpleasant side effect.He cast Tempus
and found that there was only a minute or so until ten o'clock. He
wondered if this Harry would look the same as his father, James, had.
 A striking young lad. Albus began to think of ladies he might pare
the boy with. There hadn't been much in the way of muggleborn
witches in the last decade. Nor really any pureblood witches of much
note. Hmm, a conundrum. Albus filed it away. He'd find a good
match for this Potter scion even if he was as ugly as a blast-ended
skrewt.That was when the door
to the room opened. A shortish young man with wild black hair
stepped inside. He was wearing a bizarrely colored wizard's robe,
something even Albus couldn't conceive of wearing. It was green
and blue and silver and all the colors seemed to be moving around and
almost swirling. It was an extraordinary effect and quite
disconcerting. Albus found it very difficult to actually look at
this young Harry."Harry," Albus
shouted out, stuffing another half-eaten Mars Bar into his pocket. 
"I have waited for so long to see you again. You know, I first met
you when you were knee-high to a kneazel…"Harry gave up a shy
half-smile, walked into the room, the door closing automatically
behind him. He offered his hand."Mr. Dumbledore,"
Harry said."Call me Professor,"
the older man said.Harry cocked his head a
bit to the side. His eyes narrowed in speculation."Mr. Dumbledore, I'm
glad we could finally meet. I've long wanted to, you know. But it
only became possible very recently.""Oh," Albus said,
filing away the boy's resistance to calling him a professor, "why
was that?"Harry nodded once or
twice, as if he had just answered that question. "Please have a
seat."The young man before
him was quite a tricky customer, Albus could already see. The
disarming setting, the muggle sweets, the dress robes of distraction.
 And his way of not answering questions. Albus was alarmed and
impressed at the same time. Someone had taught this boy considerable
skills. Perhaps he could be Minister of Magic within the next
decade, assuming he was pliable enough.Albus decided to be
more on his guard than he'd planned. This boy was definitely up to
something."I found a number of
papers among my parent's affects. They wrote fondly of you, Mr.
Dumbledore," Harry said."Your parents –
Lily and James – are dead?"Harry nodded. That
wasn't surprising to Dumbledore, but he acted like it was."I had wondered. I
am sorry to hear it, of course. They were wonderful students, a bit
mischievous, of course, but dear to us all.""Thank you, Mr.
Dumbledore.""Professor, call me
Professor, Harry."Harry just put on that
half-smile again. "Mr. Dumbledore," he said, very clearly, "I
wondered why you've been so interested in meeting with me. You've
delivered letters to the Potter Emporiums for fifteen years or so
now. Why?"Albus smiled. They
were on more familiar ground now."Well, I promised
your family that I would look after you if anything happened to you,
of course. I felt it my duty to try to ensure your safety as best as
I could. Whatever method you had of hiding – or whoever hid you –
did a very complete job of it. I sent owls to you weekly for the
first few years, in addition to the letters I left at the Potter
Emporiums… Interesting place, Harry, who set those up originally,
I wonder?"Albus had set down
several different questions. He was interested to see which ones
Potter would choose to run with."Mr. Dumbledore, as
you can see, I am quite fine. The provisions my guardians made for
me were very acceptable and I had a rather nice childhood. I've
even attended a wizarding school, nothing as ancient and august as
Hogwarts, of course, but a very good school nonetheless. So, if you
have nothing further for me, I'll let you to your day. I have some
affairs to take care of in this part of the world before I head back
home."Albus was shocked for a
brief moment. His meeting was over? He'd waited fifteen years for
this? He hadn't even gotten a chance to set his hooks into Potter
yet. And it seemed that Potter knew something of the world he'd
missed—Hogwarts and all the rest. So what could he do to salvage
this disaster. The boy was over seventeen now, so Albus couldn't
just take him into protective custody – for his own good, of course
– and he hadn't done anything else. He was a perfectly
inoffensive young man. Albus was raging in anger, but keeping a very
tight lid on his emotions."Oh, that's very
kind of you, Harry. But I had plans to talk with you about a number
of subjects…"Albus wasn't used to
chasing his prey. He was rather spoiled at having his normal prey
just flop over in compliance. He was stretching his political
muscles in unpleasant ways right now."…so that you can
feel comfortable when you reenter society."Harry gave a full-faced
smile. "I don't believe I plan to reenter society, Mr.
Dumbledore."Dumbledore blanched."What? I don't
understand…""Have a nice day, Mr.
Dumbledore. I was glad to put a face to all that my parents told me
of you in their letters and journals."Harry stood up and
started moving toward the door."Please," Albus
said.He knew he needed this
young man to stay. He needed the knowledge. He needed to know if
Voldemort was truly dead, for one thing. He hated knowing he needed
things from other people. He loathed begging."Please," he said
again, a bit louder.Harry frowned as he
turned around. But he seemed to sag in agreement. "Fine," he
said. "I guess I do have a few questions I would like answered."Albus slumped a bit in
his seat in gratitude. He hated feeling like he'd been played. 
But he knew he had.X-c-X-c-X-c-XNeville Longbottom had
an enormous smile on his face. He'd been an Apprentice for a week
now and he was loving it.He had twenty hours per
week tending greenhouses in America. And another paid ten hours per
week to design and create his own combination of exotic and rare
plants at a greenhouse on the Potter Estate. He loved the four
magical botany masters he'd met.He'd had the smile on
his face for a long time now.The work in America was
really valuable stuff, but not terribly exciting. He was cultivating
magical molds of various kinds plus four different herbs. 
Apparently, the Potter folks had determined a way to use magical
plants and molds to help convert nonmagical weeds and agricultural
waste products into fuel for their automobiles and other engines.The whole process was
fascinating.Plus he was drawing up
his plans for his own greenhouse. Plus Luna loved her new work at
the Technologica, developing items that no one had ever conceived of.
 A 'celluloid' phone for magical folks. 'Televideors' to
watch 'moov-ees' on. Luna rattled off the things she was doing,
they seemed insane, but she was quite pleased.Plus, Neville had made
friends with some of the other Apprentices. The Weasleys were all
smiles and laughter. One was working on potions and the other
primarily on pranks. The clear, water-like potion to make cauldrons
explode once any magical ingredient was added to them was something
they'd collaborated on just this last week. Prankster's Little
Helper, they'd named it.Neville would have
enjoyed something like that when he'd been in Snape's classes. 
At least then it wouldn't have been just his own cauldrons
that exploded and melted.Neville dipped his
quill in the ink again. He was attempting his second revision of his
plans for his greenhouse. He wanted to put in a lot of plants that
didn't mix well. One would try to eat another. One would emit
pollens that were positively poisonous to most plant species. 
Another burst into flames every forty-two days. It wasn't easy
planning all of this.Luna grabbed onto his
wrist and tried to part him from his quill. Apparently he'd been
so happy with his work that he'd been neglecting his girlfriend. 
Now he had another activity to keep him happy.





--------




Harry and the Magic FactoryChapter 21A/N: I received an
interesting review asking that I "fix" my story so that it meets
the neat symmetry of Charlie and the Chocolate Factory (a.k.a.,
Charlie is slated to inherit the factory from Willy Wonka after not
screwing up any of the challenges that sent the other prospectives
packing). Of course, the reviewer neglected to remember the utterly
bizarre sequel to the first Charlie book (Charlie in space in the
glass elevator, battling monsters, and the like). Consider the
current direction of this story as the bizarre second act to the fun
and formulaic first part. The Chosen were originally selected as
part of a major publicity stunt to start revealing the Potter Estate
to the rest of the wizarding world, but the Apprentices will be
important to the overall story arc, but who knows if I will be able
to continue it that far out to bring them back into the main plot. 
Besides, I think they provide some interesting and fun comedic relief
from time to time. I am actually enjoying beating up on Dumbledore,
Fudge, and all the others now. I hope you all enjoy! (Sorry for the
cliffhanger in this chapter, too!)X-c-X-c-X-c-XHarry cocked his head. 
"I will call you Mister Dumbledore for now, sir, and you will call
me Mister Potter. You will answer a few of my questions and perhaps
we can sort out whatever ulterior motive kept urging you to contact
me." He was beginning to drop his earlier, disinterested persona. 
He had enough information to know full well that Dumbledore had done
all of the crimes ascribed to him – but now Harry also realized
that Dumbledore didn't consider a single one of them as a crime."Harry…""No, it's Mister
Potter. I let you get away with it before, but there is nothing
familiar between us."Dumbledore sighed. The
he inclined his head just the smallest bit. Harry knew the man was
almost dying of curiosity. What question would he ask first – what
did he really want to know above all else?Harry took his seat
once more. This would either be a long conversation – or a very
short one. Harry did want to take the full measure of this man
Dumbledore, and either reaction would tell Harry some very valuable
things."My parents left some
notes about a prophecy of some sort. What can you tell me about
that?"Dumbledore seemed to
turn red underneath all his white hair. He'd obviously not been
expecting this kind of a question at all."I… I, uh, don't
know that I can say anything… about that prophecy. I don't know
that it's been carried out or invalidated. I just can't."One demerit for
Dumbledore, then. Dumbledore knew he hadn't revealed it to the
Potters, just told them to go into hiding. So the old man was trying
to figure out how they'd learned anything about it at all. Plus,
the one man was dodging questions poorly and obviously."Alright. I also
read in my mother's journals that your Order seemed to have a leak
inside it, but no one knew who it was. What can you tell me of your
efforts then to find him or her? I imagine this person had a hand in
my parents' death…"Dumbledore spluttered
some more. He obviously wasn't used to be called to account for
his actions. "Again, that is privileged information, Harry…""Mr. Potter.""…so I cannot tell
you anything about it. I do wonder if I might be able to see your
mother's journals at some point, though, she was a very clever
witch…""Who you or someone
inside your group betrayed to her death. No, I think not."Now Dumbledore seemed
like he'd been slapped."I have been back to
the remains of my parents' safe house at Godric's Hollow. It was
completely destroyed. But, my mother's journal indicated she used
a secrecy spell called the Fidelius Charm to protect it. What do you
know of that?"Dumbledore seemed to
relax a bit. Apparently, this was a safe question."Yes, Harry, yes,
that was my idea. I found it in an old book. Security through
obscurity. Breaking it would have required finding and destroying a
series of hidden rune stones, stones that are hidden inside the
protected property. It seemed the best idea at the time…"Harry nodded. He knew
all that. It was actually his follow-on question he really wanted
answered."I am curious,
though, Mr. Dumbledore, why my mother or father couldn't have held
the secret. They were the ones protected by the Charm. Why couldn't
they have held it?""Well…" 
Dumbledore was back to bravado and spluttering again. "I don't
know why they picked Sirius as their Secret Keeper…"Harry shook his head. 
"Wrong, Mr. Dumbledore. You led the discussion as to who should be
the Secret Keeper. Sirius suggested Lily should set the Charm and
James should be the Secret Keeper. Her notes suggested that you
vetoed the idea, claiming it had something to do with the magic of
the Fidelius. Ridiculous, of course. A person can serve as his own
Secret Keeper, in truth. Then you suggested that Remus not be
considered, as he was a 'Dark creature,' and that the Black
family traditions could sprout up again inside Sirius. That left one
of their close friends. The one you secretly suspected Voldemort of
controlling…"Dumbledore was shaking
in his seat now."No. No, I didn't
know anything about Peter.""Didn't want to
know. Or didn't want to acknowledge. But you took a very safe, if
underpowered spell, and turned it into a death trap for me and my
parents. So, I'll ask again. What did you know about the
prophecy? Were you trying to ensure it got enacted in a way you'd
planned out?"Dumbledore sat as mute
as a doorpost."Because I know
you're a Legilimens. You could have cracked the mental defenses of
anyone you suspected of treachery – or otherwise tested those who
had strong Occlumency defenses. You had to know about Peter
Pettigrew. You had to know encouraging my parents to trust him with
the Secret would be equivalent to killing them yourself…""You think you know a
lot, Harry," Dumbledore said, finally coming out of his mental
torpor. "I don't know who's been filling your mind with these
twistings of the truth, but I assure you…""What do you know of
my parents' wills? Their plans for me…""Well, they'd asked
me to provide a safe home for you. Once your parents asked me, I had
thought to place you with your mother's sister, a Petunia Dursley…""Who hated everything
about magic. 'A jealous, bitter shrew of a woman who has more lung
capacity for yelling than common sense.' Again, my mother kept
journals. And I have an original copy of their will. It doesn't
sound anything like what you're describing, Mr. Dumbledore. They
definitely didn't attempt to impose on you by asking you to see to
my care. And they definitely specified that nonmagical folks,
especially my 'Aunt' Petunia, were to have nothing to do with my
care. I wonder if you're familiar with the forger Petelain
Fortescue. She did a lot of work for Death Eaters in her day, and
apparently did quite a bit of forging for you as well, Mr.
Dumbledore. She did remember creating a short document and forging
the signatures of James and Lily Potter. You, of course, as witness,
signed it yourself…""Now see here, I am
the Chief Warlock of the Wizengamot. I will not have baseless
accusations of crimes bandied about…""Mr. Dumbledore, I
have the pensieve memory of her forging the document. And of you
signing it in her presence. And of you paying her one hundred
seventy galleons for her services. And of her creating many more
wills, Diggory, Wood, and two dozen other families, you know."The room fell silent
for a moment or two. "Have you been reading so many Merlin stories
you just couldn't help yourself, trying to create a new kind of
Arthur? Placing someone important into a hateful home environment,
testing a child with abuse of every kind…seeing if he'll crumble
or work through the pain and agony? It's not right, your
gamesmanship, not at all.""You sent thirty-one
orphaned children to America so that you could better control them. 
You wanted to mold their mind, control their assets, and influence
their choices to your own benefit. You think you're going to have
a good long life, and sit behind the stage and pull the strings of
everyone prancing around on it. Kind, benevolent, wise, generous. 
These are the words you've convinced people to use when describing
you and your actions. But very few know the real you, Dumbledore. 
And for good reason."Harry could tell that
Dumbledore was trying to work up a new plan to deal with Harry. He
had stopped fidgeting in his seat. He was all about his mental
concentration now."The real Dumbledore…
 Where to start? Perhaps your actions toward a young child named Tom
Riddle. Abandoned in a muggle orphanage, but clearly down in the
Hogwarts register. Why did the Headmaster of the time permit it? 
You were his deputy even then, why not transfer the boy to a magical
home, arrange for an adoption? Why did you and the others keep
sending him back? Why did no one cotton on to his darker obsessions,
his links to the line of Salazar Slytherin and his opening of the
Chamber of Secrets in his fifth year? You even cast a vote to make
him Hogwarts Head Boy. And then you just watched from the shadows as
the confused, angry, powerful young man ventured out into the world
and was fully seduced and mutated by the Darkness. Think people
would like that Dumbledore? Or, how about the warrior Dumbledore who
obliviated the memories of the four other people who participated in
the final battle against Grindelwald in the 1940s? Leaving you the
sole title as his destroyer…. Good for one's career, I'd
imagine. Or how about the judicial Dumbledore? In your work with
the Wizengamot, you allowed seventeen persons to be sent to Azkaban
without trials, six of whom were innocent of their crimes."The old man's lips
moved up and down. He wanted to deny it. To deny everything. But
he couldn't. Every word of it was true and Dumbledore had been
bombarding by accusations so rapidly he couldn't latch onto a place
to begin to refute the truth."It's not true,"
Dumbledore said, his voice not even mustering the timbre to sound
genuine or truly indignant."Excuse me, Mister
Dumbledore, but you're not even trying." Harry's voice was
colder than it had been in a very long time. The betrayer of his
parents, the manipulator of destinies. He deserved everything he
would be receiving in the very near future."I do have two gifts
to offer you…"Harry handed over the
freshly printed copy of a book. He'd been working on it for much
of his life and had only written the closing pages in the last few
weeks.Dumbledore mutely took
the book, but he did gasp when he saw the title. "The Rise and
Fall of Tom Riddle, Once Known as the Dark Lord Voldemort. He's
dead then?" Dumbledore sounded a bit relieved. At least one
revelation had been a positive one.Harry nodded.Dumbledore opened the
book and flipped to the table of contents. "Early Life…Accidental
Magic, Cruel Magic…Coming to Hogwarts…A Half-Blood in Slytherin
House…A Secret Life with Parseltongue and a Famous Ancestor…Horace
Slughorn and Tom Riddle…The Chamber of Secret Opens and the Wrong
Man is Accused…'He Was the Perfect Student'…Evaluating
Armando Dippet's Blindness…Killing Off His Father and His
Family…The Young Borgin and Burkes Clerk…Early Thoughts of
Immortality…My Merlin." Dumbledore looked up. "You
can't publish something like this. It's like a recipe to become
a Dark Lord. Even the chapter headings are making me queasy…""Keep reading,"
Harry said."The Collector of
Rare Objects…The Darkest Magics…International Travels and
Intrigues…An Education in Dark Curses through History…The Rise of
the Pureblood Agenda in Britain…Albus Dumbledore's Impotence…You
can't write that.""Keep. Reading.""The Birth of the
Death Eaters…Terror in the Night…The Battle at Cowl's
Saddle…The Order of the Phoenix Responds…The Massacre of
Pepridge-Upon-Avon…The Ministry of Magic Infiltrated…Sybil
Trelawney's Prophecy…Further Crimes Against Humanity…A Brief
History of the Potters and Longbottoms…The Duplicity of
Dumbledore…Families in Hiding…The Slaughter at Hogsmeade…The
Betrayal of the Light by Peter Pettigrew…The Death Eaters Versus
the Prewitt Twins…Voldemort's Final Battle…The Years of Tom
Riddle's Spirit Form…The Capture of the Death Eaters…Revelations
at the Death Eater Trials…Corruption Spreads Inside the British
Ministry of Magic…The Hunt for Tom Riddle's Cursed Objects…The
Dark Magics Reversed…The Fall of Tom Riddle…Epilogue.""That's it. That's
the whole truth as we know it now. Future historians may uncover
more, but that is what we know at this time. From Riddle's papers
and his own magical journal, from the Death Eaters themselves, from
the spies we've had monitoring you and yours, Dumbledore, and our
sources inside the Ministry. The book is well vetted and hits the
magical bookstores later this afternoon…"Dumbledore jerked out
of his seat as if he had an urgent appointment."Sit."Dumbledore glared with
unrestrained hatred. He had plans within plans already cooking
inside his head now. He had an enemy to beat: Harry.But Dumbledore sat back
down again. He was waiting for the rest of the disclosures. With a
thick, hate-filled voice, he said, "That was but one gift,
Mr. Potter. You said you had two."Harry nodded. He then
produced a large satchel which he pushed toward Dumbledore."I thought, since you
originally generated much of this paperwork, you should have a copy
for your records…"Dumbledore ripped open
the satchel and began pawing through it. It took him nearly a minute
before he recognized what he was holding."How did you? These
were stored at the base in America that the Order established. And
these are copies, where are the originals?"Dumbledore knew he was
in a lot of trouble. The book could be discounted, explained away as
the work of a lunatic. But goblin records couldn't be forged, it
was part of their magic. They could be copied but not altered.Dumbledore rifled
through the satchel. The records were very complete. But why had
they stopped so long ago. Dumbledore had distinct recollections of
receiving his annual updated, with proper figures in them."How?""I think the question
you want answered is: why did the withdrawals stop?"Dumbledore nodded for a
moment, then stopped himself. He was giving away entirely too much,
admitting to far too much. This boy couldn't survive this meeting
with his memory intact."I'll let you stew
on that, Mr. Dumbledore.""If you think this
way of me, why ever did you agree to meet with me?""I had to be sure,"
Harry said. "I'm leaving it to your people to judge you. But
before I let all the evidence into the public domain, I wanted to be
very sure. And, thanks to your further lies – which weren't even
very good – I have all the peace of mind that I needed."Dumbledore finally rose
out of his stupor."Contrary to your
words, it sounds exactly like you intend to be my judge and jury. 
You intend to fix all the world's problems? To rule the world
absolutely… You know what they say about absolute power, my boy."Harry suppressed a
smile. This was a very common tactic. Accuse the other party of the
things you yourself have done. Dumbledore really was working from an
old playbook."I have no interest
in ruling anything beyond what my family started. I'm an
accidental leader for my family and my people. I'd prefer to run
no governments, veto no laws, sit in no judgment of criminals when
they ask for my pardon. I simply want to be in a safe position to
tell the truth to the world and to set up a powerful counterbalance
to the excesses in this world. The muggles will keep the wizards on
their toes, for sure. Good things will come of it – good and bad,
but all things come paired like that, I think. I am but a young man
hoping for a safer, more stable world. I want no more wars in my
lifetime, although that is overly optimistic to expect. I want no
more Light Lords or Dark Lords in my lifetime. I want no one setting
themselves up as the ultimate savior. I do not proclaim myself
anything but a young man with one simple idea: tell the truth to the
muggles in a safe way and it will do both worlds an enormous good. I
enjoy tinkering with potions and pranks and spells; I like football,
Quidditch, and swimming; I have a number of friends and a few very
close ones; I have Sirius and Remus and the ghosts of my parents to
help and advise me. I am a normal person struggling with an
oversized gift, I will make mistakes, correctable I hope, but I will
never – unlike you, Dumbledore – rationalize everything away or
shine a false light on what I'm doing. I will do dangerous things,
even things commonly thought illegal. I will completely shatter the
International Statute of Secrecy; I will destroy muggle artifacts,
namely weapons, by the millions…"Dumbledore was back to
aping out-of-water fish."I suggest for your
sake, Dumbledore, that you leave your manipulations behind. Announce
your retirement from Hogwarts and the Wizengamot today, before the
torrent of news and honesty overwhelms you like peasants storming the
Bastille. Or not, it's freely your choice, old man. Exit with
limited grace. Or get thrown out the door." Harry decided to add
in the final kickers. "By the way, your phoenix has finally
abandoned you. And Fawkes has brought your Philosopher's Stone to
us so it can be destroyed. People shouldn't live past their normal
life spans."Dumbledore was still
processing all of this disaster."The children need
me…""You need that school
and the prestige it lends you far more than the students need
whatever small amount of benefit you provide. I have no honest idea
why you have such a reputation in the wizarding world; it's
certainly unearned. You're a menace to orphans and your ideas
about education are rooted in medieval times."Dumbledore looked up
with sad eyes. He rapidly pulled his wand from his holster and
leveled it at Harry."Imperio!"





--------




Harry and the Magic FactoryChapter 22A/N: Hope you enjoy
this little duel. It's been the most interesting part to write so
far!X-c-X-c-X-c-XAlbus Dumbledore
watched as the energy of his Imperius Curse diverted in midair and
went careening off, crashing into and destroying one of the large
bowls of lemon sherbets on a side table.Albus didn't stop
even though his pulse was racing far above what was safe for a man of
his years."Diffindo."That one careened off
toward a table filled with little squares of fudge that had been
painted red, orange, and blue."Lacero."It dipped down toward
the floor and created a massive crater."Reducto."It seemed to arrive
nearly at where Harry was now standing before diverting almost
perfectly backward and flying toward Albus himself. It was only
Albus throwing himself to the floor that kept him from a massive
blast of magical energy.Harry pulled a wand out
of his cloak with decent, but not frightening speed.Albus pulled himself to
his feet again and responded by summoning his Fire Whip. He was
nervous about what this Harry Potter would do now. With the flick of
a wrist, he sent the whip slicing through the chair Harry had been
occupying thirty seconds earlier.Harry held up his wand
and smiled. And then, Harry, too, was holding a whip. But it wasn't
fire or ice or any other variation Albus had ever seen. It was
silvery, shimmering, it was of an indeterminate length. It was a
whip of pure magic.Albus was stunned for a
second, then he examined the whole thing carefully, even as the
extruded coil of magic was hurtling toward his own hand. He watched,
helpless as a child, while the magic whip coiled and coiled around
the Fire Whip. The pure magic quickly extinguished the fire magic
that Dumbledore had poured into the whip.Harry retracted his own
line of tightly coiled magic, too. Albus watched it disappear and
felt sad at its vanishing – sad, even though that magic whip had
just destroyed one of his most powerful offensive weapons.Albus then studied the
wand in the boy's hand. That was when Albus noticed that the wand
wasn't a wand. His charmed glasses saw that it had no core at all."That's not a
wand," he spluttered, before sending a binding curse toward Harry –
silently. He didn't even care that he had just seen a magic whip
emanate from a nonmagical piece of wood.Harry shrugged as the
curse seemed to evaporate in midair. Then he let the stick drop to
the floor and proceeded to smile fully. "Let's see if the Leader
of the Light knows all three of the Unforgivables. I haven't had a
good duel in years, Dumbledore."With that, Albus' own
massive beard began attacking his face. Some of his hair braided
itself and then flew up to cover Albus' face while it merged itself
into Albus' hairline.He pulled and tugged at
his decades of growth before he started shearing off his own locks.He had a second to
point and shout out, "Gargamel," a dark Persian organ-rotting
curse, before Albus found his own robes – blue and silver with
little moons and planets spinning round and round – attacking him
now. One moment he was bound up like an Engyptian mummy. The next,
his garments were tearing and binding themselves around his head as
if they were a suffocating variety of turban.On and on his clothing
went, attacking Dumbledore, until he starting burning his own
clothing. At that, Dumbledore's fingernails, and toenails, began
to grow at a rapid pace. It was becoming beyond his own ability to
hold his wand in a duelist's precise grip without risking that his
nails would sever in half the slender piece of mahogany.A half-naked, scruffily
shorn Dumbledore resorted to holding his wand like a toddler
clutching a stick – badly, laughably. He was now trying to duel
when he couldn't even aim his spells.Albus decided on
wide-area effects.He sent a massive surge
of wind toward Harry, strong enough to knock the boy end over end for
a good couple of rolls. But the winds seemed to part around Harry as
they drew close to him.Then Albus flooded
Harry's portion of the cottage with the Starlight Curse. It was
strong enough to disintegrate vampires and was, ordinarily, strong
enough to temporarily blind even shielded human beings. Albus, of
course, closed his own eyes before calling forth the energy. As soon
as it was safe, he opened his eyes and send a Disarming Hex toward
Harry, only to remember that Harry didn't seem to carry a wand."Stupid," he
shouted to himself, but meaning the insult for Harry for some unknown
reason.But even that simple
piece of magic didn't reach an unblended Harry Potter. The boy had
somehow countered with a Visual Darkness Charm, useful for treating
light sensitive patients in hospital. How did this wisp of a boy
know medical spells like that one?Albus gritted his teeth
and went back to sending out powerful banishing and burning curses. 
But none of them arrived.He then summoned a fire
wraith and commanded it to destroy the building. Albus was quite
aware of his own abilities to resist fire spells, but he was sure
that this Harry Potter wouldn't have such skills. Death by fire
was a bit further than Albus had planned to go – honestly, Albus
had been considering making Harry Potter Minister of Magic in a
couple of decades. But this creature had been befouled beyond all
recognition; he was simply too cunning, too smart, too well versed
with the facts to survive.But when the
proto-demon arrived in the room a few seconds later, shrieking in
pain after it had been pulled from another world, it found itself
mostly bound in place. And it couldn't ignite anything. It howled
and shrieked – almost as loudly as Albus himself – and struggled
against his invisible cage.When it disappeared
from the room, Albus pivoted and tried to find his target. There,
there, in the corner. Albus lifted his wind, with his loose
club-fisted grip, and tried to send the Cruciatus Curse at Harry. 
That boy would pay. Accusations, attacking like he had. Albus was
no one's fool, he would be obeyed. Everyone else had learned this
– some through the 'hard way.'The torture curse
crashed into a wall a few feet from Harry. It blew a massive hole
out of the side of the building. Albus watched as some sort of white
frosting seemed to drop down through the open hole and cover and seal
it. A candied house indeed.Where one curse had
done something, but not to Harry, Albus decided quantity was better
than quality. Albus sent another five of the Cruciatus. All five
veered off and crashed into different objects.Harry responded by
somehow enchanting all the bowls of candy in the room to attack
Albus. The one filled with Mars Bars simply hucked them at the aged
wizard. The bars transfigured into rather sharp spikes as they flew
through the air. The ones filled with spherical candies aimed them
underneath Albus' moving feet, so as to trip him up. The one
filled with gooey fudge aimed for Albus eyes and ears, to blind and
bind his senses.One of the chandeliers
made of nonpareils flew apart. Each of the small chocolate
confections began melting as they zoomed toward Dumbledore. The man
felt his body begin sagging underneath the weight of oozing, sticky
chocolate and sugar.He shook it off,
vigorously scrubbed himself with a watering and a cleansing charm and
reassessed his situation. A few of the transfigured Mars Bars had
scraped or pierced his flesh. He staunched the blood flow quickly.It seemed utterly
hopeless and Albus Dumbledore had no idea why that was.So Albus used his final
option. He leveled his chocolate-covered wand at Harry and said,
"Avada Kedavra." The green energy sparked out of his wand and
ran the entire length of the room very quickly. In the last fraction
of the second it took, the green energy transformed into yellow and
turned upward and detonated part of the ceiling. One of the
chandeliers made from lemon sherbets came crashing to the floor."I guess you do know
all the Unforgivables, Albus. But I know a lot of magic, too."For the first time
since this bastardized duel start, Harry spoke aloud a spell. Albus
turned white in fear as he saw the energy arc toward him.The ancient Greek spell
translated into "kill off the living magic." When it impacted
though, it didn't drain Albus of his magic. No, it struck his
mahogany and basilisk scale wand. His dearest magical companion –
far dearer than his supposedly now-fled phoenix, Fawkes – crumbled
to ashes in his hand.Albus uttered a groan
as deep and inhuman as anything ever heard. All was lost.That was Steiner
Grindelwald's wand – a wand he'd reputedly killed another
wizard to claim – and it had been in nearly continuous use for two
hundred sixteen years, growing more and more powerful the longer
witches and wizards had used it. It had been far more compatible
with Albus' magic than Albus' previous wand had been. He'd
kept it as a token of victory and begun using it immediately. It had
been his dearest friend for so very long.And it was destroyed
now.Albus was severely
weakened with this setback. His wandless abilities were mostly
parlor tricks, such as flickering candles on and off. But, he could
apparate with the best of them.So he tried.And then he tried
again.Damn. Anti-apparation
wards. He hadn't sensed any when he'd first come onto the
property. And he hadn't felt any wash over him afterwards. Albus
thought for a moment about how someone could erect them without those
in the immediate vicinity not feeling them. But he had insufficient
time to really consider the problem.He was inside a duel
he'd started. And he didn't like running or losing, but he'd
run out of other options.Well, save one.Albus Dumbledore
transfigured himself into his unregistered animagus form: that of a
powerfully muscled mountain goat, an Ibex, with long horns that
curved behind his head. He leapt onto one of the tables, then onto
the top of a bookshelf, then to one of the exposed beams far above
the floor of the place. He pushed himself into a dark corner and
began battering at the wall with his rear hooves, kicking and tearing
away as he could.He would be leaving
this madhouse. And no Harry Potter would be able to stop him.Albus Dumbledore was so
caught up in his goat-like work that he noticed Harry Potter
disappear from the floor below. Harry, also, was waiting for the end
of Dumbledore's efforts.Finally, the goat
Dumbledore kicked his way outside. He jumped from the top of the
structure and didn't even look to see where he was going. So, when
he landed, he was shocked to see that the view of the sea he'd
expected was gone. In its place, Dumbledore found himself in the
middle of a massive sort of jungle. He awkwardly turned around in
his Ibex body to look for the cottage he'd just kicked his way out
of. But the cottage was gone, too.Dumbledore felt sick to
his stomach. What had he done?He'd obviously walked
into a magical home. But had he walked into a portal of some sort? 
Or a home that could apparate to another locale? Because he was no
longer along the coast of Britain any more. The sea-smell was gone. 
Now it was the decomposition of the jungle that assaulted the Ibex's
nostrils.And where had the
damned home gone? He'd just kicked his way out of it and now it
was missing. He tried apparating. But, even in this jungle,
apparition was impossible. Then he tried walking into the
underbrush, but something underneath him caught his attention…Dumbledore's
goat-like body roared in pain.Something had just
bitten him. Something small.A mongoose or something
like a ferret, long and slinky, ran out between Dumbledore's legs
and vanished into the dense cover of the forest. Dumbledore could
feel that he was bleeding just a bit. But he hadn't seen Harry
yet. So he was going to stay in his stronger, more agile body so
long as he was without a wand.It wasn't but a
moment before Dumbledore tried to turn toward a sound. He spent
little time in his animagus form, so the rapid motion unbalanced him.
 Dumbledore's ibex-body tumbled to the ground. He was in the full
bloom of pain when he pushed himself back up. He lifted his head
just in time to see a massive silver-tinged lion emerge from the
underbrush. The animal's massive paw descended and swiped at
Dumbledore's face, drawing even more blood. The goat tumbled to
the ground under the aggressive attack.When he stumbled back
to his feet, the massive, unusual cat was gone. But he heard a
shriek from the air. A hawk of gruesome dimensions was bearing down
on him. Its talons raked along the length of his goat-back. 
Dumbledore brayed and blurted in pain.What were these
animals? And how had they found him in this jungle?Dumbledore took a few
halting steps toward the underbrush. He'd didn't even see the
massive jaws of the serpent close over his right front ankle. It was
the pain that was the first and only warning.His concentration was
fully broken. Once the serpent released, Dumbledore found himself
ejected from his goat body and back into his enfeebled human form."What have I done,"
he shouted. "I'm an old man. This isn't fair. You don't
attack fairly. I'm too important to die in a jungle like this."For nothing and no one
ever bested Albus Dumbledore. And he didn't even see his attacker
any longer. He panted on the grassy floor then heard a branch break
in the near environs. He twisted around to see what was coming to
attack.It was that demon Harry
Potter. The boy still carried no wand, but Albus realized that the
boy knew more than a few wandless tricks. He could even command
animals to attack, it seemed.Albus thought about his
dwindling options. Surrender. Sue for peace and negotiations. 
Attack (but with what?). Force the boy into killing him. Or, his
final wandless skill, as apparition didn't seem to work in the
jungle either, legilimency.Albus looked the boy in
his eyes. And he willed every ounce of his skill into peering into
the boy's mind, into crippling him for an hour or a day. For long
enough to escape from this horrifying place.Albus felt his
conscious mind leave his body and begin racing toward Harry Potter. 
He felt himself enter inside the boy's body. He felt himself enter
into the boy's rather unprotected mind. And then he started
ripping and tearing. He started grasping at every memory he could
find and shoving it back into the kid's mind, to force him away
from the present, to force him into a loop of reviewing his own past
memories. Albus spent what he imagined were hours pouring through
Harry's mind pushing and tearing and ripping.But he didn't once
examined a memory or look to see if he was filling up the boy's
central core. No, he just kept pushing and tearing. He was
attempting to cause as much damage as he could.Finally, Albus'
mental projection concluded its efforts. He was still surrounded by
millions of memories, but he hoped he sent enough to Harry's
central core to immobilize him for a good long while.That was when Albus
discovered the flaw in his half-baked plan.He'd entered Harry
Potter's mind without a problem, and stayed for as long as he'd
wanted. But, now that he wanted to leave, Albus' mental projection
found it was completely stuck inside Harry's mind.He tore and tore at
whatever he could find. Where it had been clear sailing into this
mind, there now appeared to be a perfectly smooth wall in all
directions. There was no indication at all as to how Albus had made
it inside here.He glimpsed at one of
the memories for just a moment. It was of Albus arriving at the
cottage.Then he plucked up
another one. It was identical. He searched the entire room,
sampling more than a hundred. Every single memory in this place was
identical. It took many sickening minutes before Albus realized what
this place was. It wasn't Harry's mind. No, it was a prison
he'd conceived of inside his mind. It was designed to lure in
mental attackers, to lure them in and never let them out again…Albus Dumbledore knew
he had just been destroyed by a boy ten time younger than he was. He
felt deep, awful hatred filling what he had brought with him of his
consciousness. He felt loathing deeper than he had felt even for
Grindelwald, even for the adult Tom Riddle. No one had ever beaten
him like this. He had been fought to a draw before, but never
humiliated.Albus screamed inside
the shielded room inside of Harry Potter's mind. He screamed and
screamed and hoped he would be let out before his own body fell
victim to some kind of animal or other inside that damned jungle.It was only then, after
Albus mentally conceded defeat, that the images inside the room began
to change. He saw the mongoose again – and it transformed back
into Harry. Albus watched as all his animal attackers transformed
back into Harry. The scrap of a boy was a multi-animagus, a thing
only possible in theory, but never before seen in practice. Harry
had inflicted each of those painful wounds on his body. Harry had
beaten Albus over and over again. Magically, physically, mentally.Then Albus felt his
mind being forcibly ejected. He felt himself flying out of the
prison inside Harry's mind.And into the prison of
his own mind. His own body was completely trussed up and stunned. 
Albus couldn't even wiggle his little finger.He was staring right
into the eyes of Harry Potter. And then he felt his own mind
invaded. All his plans of recent months flipped past his
observation: his agreement with the Ministry of Magic to take down
the Potter Emporiums especially seemed to interest young Harry. But
Dumbledore felt everything stripped out of his mind, all of his ideas
for the greater good.And when Harry left his
mind, Dumbledore was aching everywhere. He could see only part of
his own body. He was a bloody mess. His belly looked like it had
been bitten by a rat. And he could see the damage to his leg and
ankle.The last words Albus
Dumbledore heard, once Harry was touching his temple, were "Memoria
Evanesco." And, with that, the strongest form of obliviation took
hold inside Dumbledore's mind. All the day's activities were
destroyed from his memory.X-c-X-c-X-c-XAlbus Dumbledore woke
up when someone started roughly shaking his arm. Then someone shined
a bright light into his face. With bleary eyes, Albus tried to
figure out where he was.He determined a few
things immediately. He smelled awful, or something around him
smelled awful.He also hurt like he'd
been through one of Molly Weasley's meat grinding spells. His
upper chest, which was mostly naked to the elements, was quite cold.He managed to croak
out, "Where am I?"The bobby who was
attempting to roust him from behind a garbage dumpster outside
Bristol's only lesbian bar had to keep from frowning. It was also
so sad to run across the elderly homeless. This one had obviously
fared very poorly in the last few days. He showed signs of fighting
– and being clawed at or nibbled on by rats or other animals. His
body was covered in dirt and melted food of some sort. His beard had
been hacked at, so he looked terrible. And his clothes showed signs
of burning – burning and tearing. Who had attacked this elderly
man?The only thing in the
man's favor was that he didn't seem to be intoxicated or strung
out on any kind of illegal substance."You're in Bristol,
sir. Two of that bar's more amorous patrons discovered you behind
this dumpster, sir. How long have you been living rough now?"Dumbledore was quite
confused. He was a wizard. He owned a rather magnificent manor. He
was the headmaster of the finest school of witchcraft and wizardry in
Europe and beyond. He did not 'live rough.'Albus reached for his
wand, but discovered it wasn't on him at the moment. Blast!"I'll have you know
I'm a very important person in my world, sonny. I'll need just a
bit of help then I can get back on my way. If you could just ring up
the Ministry of Magic in London. Ask for Cornelius Fudge…"The bobby rolled his
eyes. There was nothing worse than a psych case who'd slipped
through the National Health Service. The man obviously needed
medication. 'Ministry of Magic.' The bobby did enjoy hearing
tall tales, but not from such obviously sick individuals. He decided
to forgo the trip to the station house with this one. No, he'd be
shipped directly over to St. Margaret's…maybe they'd recognize
him. A forty-eight hour psychiatric commitment was the best thing
for this obviously distressed elderly man."Sir, yes, we can
take care of that once we've cleaned up your wounds. If you'll
just stand up…there you go, sir…now we can go and get you all
mended. Were you in a fight today, sir?""No, not that I
recall…""Well, these bruises
and cuts appear fairly fresh. Did you partake of any alcoholic
beverages today, sir?""No, but I do
occasionally enjoy a nice firewhisky."The bobby felt terrible
again. 'Firewhisky.' It was probably the man's name for some
home-distilled rubbish guaranteed to drive him blind or rot out his
guts in a few months.The bobby put the man
into the back of the police carrier. They'd get him to hospital in
twenty minutes. Perhaps he'd be better in forty-eight hours. Or
perhaps they could arrange for a longer commitment if he didn't
seem to recover once on medication.X-c-X-c-X-c-XDolores Umbridge was
having trouble falling asleep. Since Dumbledore had first dropped
his idea about harassing the Potter Emporiums, she'd never had so
much fun reading over daily reports. Those Aurors could surely be
creative in the things she'd done. But nothing could top what was
to occur on the morrow.She tossed and turned
for several hours before she managed to fall unconscious. But even
while her massive snores rocked the walls of her room, her mind was
filled with the visions of power – the Aurors under her control,
the well-crafted writs allowing them to do as they wish, and a smile
that just wouldn't disappear from her face.





--------




Harry and the Magic FactoryChapter 23A/N: I seemed to have
lost my way for a time with this story. Hopefully I'm back on
track.On another topic, I
enjoyed the Order of the Phoenix movie. I disliked much of the 5th
book so I hadn't expected much from the companion movie. I was
pleasantly surprised (although the scenes at the Ministry could have
been done differently, e.g. better). Good casting for Bellatrix,
though! I would have liked to have seen more McGonagall (her and
Umbridge tussling over Harry's career!) and perhaps the scene where
Harry was thrown off the Quidditch team. But, the scenes with Filch
hanging up the vast and petty proclamations were funny and enjoyable
– as were the montages that sped along the plot. A better movie
than a book, in my (perhaps controversial) opinion.Anyway. Enjoy the new
chapter!X-c-X-c-X-c-XJanuary 11, 1997Dolores Umbridge was
wheezing a bit as her fat little legs carried her down Diagon Alley. 
She hadn't looked forward to anything this much since she
personally executed a rabid hippogriff seventeen years ago. A little
blood was a good thing to get one's own blood flowing! Yes,
indeed.She tugged on her pink
cardigan once more just before she walked inside the store. It was
early in the morning, the perfect time to end the existence of this
ridiculous store.She had a full
complement of twelve aurors behind her. Dolores didn't kid herself
that she wasn't a terribly gifted witch – when it came to the
magical side of the equation – but she was gifted with people and
politics. Oh, yes. Very gifted.And it was Albus
Dumbledore who'd gotten this little action started. Such an odd
man, the headmaster of her youth. Sometimes he appeared so innocent,
so good; other times, Dolores wondered where his mind came up with
the things he spouted off. However, for all his oddity, his current
idea about closing down the Potter Emporiums was an excellent one.So, with a dozen wands
at her back, she strode into the store to find it surprisingly full
for such an early hour."This store is
closed. Anyone still here in five minutes will be fined for shopping
in a business unapproved by the Ministry of Magic."Most of the people
inside just glared at the rotund woman and continued on with their
shopping."Well, I never…"She was getting ready
for a full tantrum when one of the beastly little house elves
wandered over to her."May I be helping
you, Miss?""I am Madam Umbridge,
you foul creation. And you can fetch me a proper witch or wizard. 
My people have business with this store, you understand. We're
closing it down for good."The green monstrosity's
eyes just got wide. Then it blinked a half dozen times before it
bowed and then said, "I will be fetching someone. Just one moment,
Miss."Umbridge grunted in
frustration. She turned around and caught more than one of the
Aurors pickpocketing some of the merchandise from the store. She
scowled that they would even want such filth – it had been
merchanted by house elves, for Merlin's sake."Don't touch any of
that filth," she whispered. "It's not fit for proper wizards. 
It's unnatural, freakish…" Her brain was a veritable thesaurus
for unpleasant words. "Proper wizards pay for other wizards to
make their goods, not for these abominations."None of the Aurors
wanted to argue with her, even if the quality was better and the
prices lower than in the other stores. In fact, it was basically
purebloods like herself who were keeping the noncompetitive stores
open in the face of the Potter Emporiums. But the Aurors all liked
their jobs and the various unofficial perks that came with them.Dolores looked around
the store and observed that next to no one had left. People were
still peaceably doing their marketing. This wouldn't stand."Start ushering them
out, gentlemen. No need to be gentle, either, as they already had a
warning."The Aurors each managed
to take about five steps before they all seemed to freeze into place.
 Umbridge began to scream at them before she noticed a house elf
behind a desk at the side of the store. It had obviously done
something."Release them, you
foul beast."The house elf shook his
head.Umbridge smirked and
drew her wand."What is your name,
elf? I'll need it for the report." The Ministry was nothing if
not thorough in its paperwork. For the destruction of a worthless
house elf, she would need at least its name and a reason for its
death.The confused elf
answered her question. "Dobby, Miss.""I am a Madam, you
inbred monster." She leveled her wand at the creature and said,
"Reducto."X-c-X-c-X-c-XOliver Wood blinked a
few times rapidly. He was definitely nervous. He'd been finished
with school for a good deal of time, just working toward completing
three masteries. He wanted to get a Transfiguration mastery under
his belt before he petitioned to have "Magical and Non-Magical
Games and Sports" made into a Mastery option. He'd already
written up his full proposal.But the problem had
been completing his animagus transformation, that had stalled him for
two-plus solid years when he was trapped and prevented from moving
forward to taking the first-level mastery testing. Had it been worth
it? Hell, the transformation was more painful than getting hit by a
half dozen bludgers. But, after the years of work, Oliver was now a
pit bull. After all, as the official reasoning went, one couldn't
adequately teach human self-transfiguration unless one was an
animagus himself.And he could finally
complete the last stage of the Mastery: the demonstration and proving
before the other Transfiguration masters.What he was about to do
was some terribly clever transfiguration, highly advanced and
surprisingly different from much of the spell research that had ever
been done before – but it was also the basis for Oliver Wood to
begin making his case for allowing a Mastery in Games and Sports.Oliver Wood walked out
to the spot behind the Potter School and saw that the twenty or so
observers he'd expected were all present, even his friend Harry. 
It was, of course, actually Harry that one had to impress. And Harry
was sure to enjoy this presentation and also to ask the most
challenging of questions, too, as a reward.Oliver bowed to the
audience and spoke in a loud clear voice the formulaic language. "My
brothers and sisters in knowledge, I thank you for your time and
forbearance as I have struggled to become adept in the discipline of
magical transfiguration. Now, today, I would like to demonstrate a
bit of that knowledge synthesized and made new and vital. Then I
would gladly accept your questions to prove my mastery of this most
important of subjects."All the audience
members inclined their heads for a second and Oliver relaxed a bit. 
He wasn't great with memorized speeches, but he'd practiced his
demonstration many, many times and could deliver it without conscious
thought."I would like to say
one thing about why we're meeting outside in the middle of January.
 My demonstration and proving – in its current form – is rather
connected to the earth, as you shall all see."As Oliver walked around
the Quidditch pitch behind the school, laying out the objects needed
for his transfiguration mastery, he pondered over the path that had
brought him here. He'd spent more than fifteen years acquiring the
knowledge of the world – and of magic to get this far. Then nine
years specifically studying various aspects of transfiguration. Then
that horrifying test. He'd been given a practical examination on
his ability to transfigure in all situations: academic, domestic,
practical, battle; under water, in a desert, inside a forest;
conjuring food and living off it for two days while conjuring an
entire small house and all the required belongings, from teacups to
china cabinets, so that he could host a dinner party for seven,
serving only conjured delicacies; then a series of duels that relied
solely upon battle transfiguration and conjuration.And all that had
qualified him merely to begin specific work into his chosen research
area: autonomous transfiguration or objects enchanted to transfigure
themselves when specified conditions were met, the expiration of a
timing charm or the use of a codeword or exposure to fire or any
other unique condition. It required mastery over enchanting and
transfiguration; it required the integration of safety charms and
other varieties of magic to make everything work properly. It was
serious magic.Oliver walked back over
to where his observers were seated. Then he spoke a single, clear
word into the cold morning air. "Games."At that, the tiny toys
and trinkets Oliver had spread across the pitch began to release
their stored, enchanted magic. A few dozen of them began turning
into massive hedgerows, a virtual maze that could delight a dozen
children, as the plants seemed to be growing together in bizarre
ways. It wasn't a maze in two dimensions; no, it was a maze in
three dimensions. The hedgerows would force children to climb and
descend; to move through layers and tunnels cut through the
hedgerows. Inside, children's slides, a merry-go-round, and a
series of Quidditch hoops formed up as well.There were even more
surprises in store for those who ventured inside. And, because of a
variety of charms he'd devised to work with his autonomous
transfiguration, every time these tokens were activated, the maze and
its contents would vary."Toys that entertain;
some that teach; some that inspire. A portable playground, one that
is made of magic, one that teaches magic at an age appropriate level,
one that tells the stories of magic. I call it the Everchanted Maze.
 This is my first practical example of autonomous transfiguration
which has been combined with enchanting, safety charms, and a variety
of other disciplines…"Harry Potter was the
first one out of the stands and the first to enter inside the maze. 
He had a wicked smile on his face as he pushed his way inside.X-c-X-c-X-c-XInside the Potter
Emporium, a surprisingly small wave of red energy lashed out of
Dolore Umbridge's wand and headed toward the small, concerned house
elf. It cried with a real terror when it was struck in its upper arm
and a deep red gash appeared there.Instantly, three elves
appeared alongside of Dobby and began to fuss over him. And two more
of the foul creatures arrived near Dolores. She was ready to blast
away again, when one of the new creatures snapped its fingers and her
wand split right up its length. The destroyed pieces just fell from
her hand."What did you do, you
ridiculous creature. I'm the Undersecretary – the Senior
Undersecretary, at that, for Justice and Peace and Eternal Prosperity
– to the Minister of Magic himself. I'm an important personage
and you, creature, have just signed your own death warrant… 
Aurors, kill them all. Kill every elf in here…. NOW!"Of course, the woman
seemed to have forgotten that all her Aurors seemed to be perfectly
incapable of moving at all.But the Oompahs staring
at the lump of a degenerate human didn't. No, the pair of them
advanced on her. One bound her with ropes. The other bound her
magic so tightly it would take months to unloosen. From near-squib
like powers, the woman now literally was less than a squib."What did you do to
me," she shrieked. Out of the corner of her eye, she saw that the
elf she had tried to kill had now stopped bleeding. But he wasn't
dead. No, he was pissed off.The mad little creature
stomped up to Dolores Umbridge, ripped the papers she was carrying
out of her left hand, and then left her gasping like a fish out of
water.Her eyes followed the
mad little critter as he stomped over to a wizard who had just
seemingly appeared from nowhere. He looked vaguely familiar. And –
what's more – he looked like a werewolf. Dolores sniffed at the
air. There was a wildness here that hadn't been present before."Filthy half breed,"
she shouted.The werewolf looked at
the bandaged house elf and nodded toward Dolores. "Take her away
to justice. To the elf courts, Dobby. You may ask of her what you
will."The small, excitable
creature clapped his hands in joy. Then he scampered back toward
Dolores, grasped her arm, and – with a final, agonizing shriek from
the rotund female – disappeared.Remus Lupin then walked
over to the immobilized Aurors and surveyed them. "Your 'leader'
won't be returning, I'm afraid. It's a capital offense to kill
an Oompah. Since Dobby survived, the punishment is reduced, but it
will still mean at least a lifetime of servitude…"He turned to observe
the customers still inside the store. "If everyone could please
wrap up your shopping, we seem to have a matter of Ministry
interference to deal with. I wouldn't like for anyone of you to be
caught up inside this obviously political farce. The Oompahs will be
glad to help all of you with your needs. And don't forget that we
do have an owl catalogue available."With that, Remus Lupin
examined the documents that Dobby had taken from Dolores Umbridge's
hand."An order of seizure.
 Without any documentary evidence or stated rationale, I'd also
note. No one in their right mind would sign off on something with
such flimsy claims. Of course, that's assuming that the someone
was in her right mind, as that woman certainly wasn't. Still,
someone bothered to draw up papers and put them on Ministry
parchment. Yet they don't seem to be fully thought out. Hmm…I
wonder."He pulled out his wand.
 "Reveal your authority."A grayish spell flew
from his wand and surrounded the legal documents. But the magical
orders did not respond in kind with either an aura or a magical voice
or any kind of answer to the demand."They're false,
papers, then," Remus said. "The Ministry hasn't gone through
its own procedures to make these legal."One of the Aurors,
named Dawlish, finally woke up enough to realize what was happening."You foolish… 
Gah." Remus filled the man's insulting mouth with a burst of
soap suds. "Albus Dumbledore, head of the Wizengamot, suggested
all this. Of course it's perfectly legal. He can make anything
legal."He spat soap suds as
the shoppers inside the store made their way past the Aurors. Most
were laughing. A few who had been roughed up by these 'law
enforcement officers' took a moment or two to repay certain favors.
 All of the Aurors found their wands snapped by suddenly happy
patrons of the Potter Emporium.Remus watched the whole
procession with a guarded face. He was also trying to make some
sense of these blasted papers that the toad-like woman had been
carrying. He could get the gist of what they said on the first
reading, but further scrutiny showed them to be almost insensible. 
Well, insensible and filled with only half truths.Remus looked closely at
each of the Aurors once the store was emptied of its customers."Are you clowns even
legitimate Aurors?"He shot the same
grayish spell toward the badge of the lead Auror. It didn't react
at all, either.Then Remus shot the
spell – apparently concerned that it wasn't working – toward
the enchanted cash drawer guarded over by two Oompahs. It spat back
that it was a proper receptacle of money, as ordered by the Potter
Emporium."Hmm, so my spell
still works. But your paperwork, even your badges, are just for
show. Interesting. I wonder what that means exactly." It was
then a wolfish smile creased his face. "Perhaps it means that your
Ministry isn't legitimate at all. Perhaps it means that the
magical contract that established the Ministry was ended – and your
Fudge and his cronies never let anyone know about it, just to hang
onto power. Perhaps it was ended, oh maybe, nine years ago or so. 
You may not know, but the Blacks, the Potters, the Diggory's, the
Woods, the Malfoys, Lestranges, Notts, Carrows, Goyles, and many
other families were among the initial forty-nine signatories. And
that magical contract binding a good deal of the free magic within
Britain was designed to be ended should the Ministry fall to
corruption and incompetence…"The Aurors were now all
free enough to move their faces. They were considering the story
with disbelief and, a few, with mounting horror."You've all been
acting without a basis in law for almost a decade. Every law passed
since then was illegal and many of you committed crimes in the name
of those laws. Some of you 'confiscated' assets – that is no
different than theft. Some of you 'put down' werewolves –
that's plain old murder, my fine feathered friends. Your reign of
terror has just ended, I'd say. Should be fun to see what happens,
I think…"Dawlish had enough
sanity left in his skull to shout something out."Dumbledore will stop
you. Fudge is a moron, true, but Dumbledore can outthink any five
wizards…"Remus smiled. "I
don't think Dumbledore will be doing much of anything for the next
few days at least. He's rather tied up at the moment, indisposed
you might say. And, after he frees up some time, I doubt anyone will
bother to give him the time of day. I'd suggest you read your
newspapers tomorrow and the day after, but none of you will have that
privilege… There's going to be quite an outcry concerning the
old man in the coming days, weeks, and months."X-c-X-c-X-c-X"Oliver, my
compliments," Harry Potter said after making his way through
Oliver's maze. "A truly inspiring piece of magic. I
particularly loved the puzzles inside, quizzing me on Merlin's
favorite breakfast foods and the best way to make an angry Centaur
happy. Wonderful bit of educational theory thrown in there, I'd
say…"The two chatted happily
until the other Transfiguration masters made it back out into the
open. Most of them had wide smiles on their faces; a few looked dour
at having messed up their robes after climbing around like a child. 
But Oliver knew their votes didn't count."Well, Oliver,"
Harry said, more for the benefit of the group than anyone else's,
"perhaps you might consent to answer some of our lingering
questions?"He smiled. It seemed
he'd passed the demonstration portion of his proving and was now
moving onto the final oral examination. If he was made a mastery,
he'd have to swear his oath before the Board of Mastery when it
next met. Oliver could just himself saying, "I swear, on
penalty of severe punishments, up to and including the loss of my own
magic, to continue the development and advancement of my field and to
practice, hone, and share my skills throughout the magical world."Oliver smiled when he
started fielding the questions. The technical types started off. 
"How did you mix delayed transfiguration with charms work?" 
"Explain the animation spells you utilized to make the miniature
Merlin ask us what type of breakfast he liked." "You seemed to
randomly place the objects onto the open field, Mr. Wood, but how did
everything come together so neatly in the end?" "Have you
considered using runic practices – or wards – to increase the
range and flexibility of your system?"The visionaries started
interrupting the questioning then. Harry was the leader of this
subgroup, it seemed. They weren't focused on the details – no,
they were interested in the realm of possibility. "How can these
'autonomous transfigurations' be used in a battle environment?"
 "I wonder if we could take some of your expertise in merging
incompatible spells to improve the way that other disciplines work? 
I'm thinking specifically right now about better enchanted cooking
equipment. Safety spells and fire spells don't work well together,
generally." "Explain your thoughts for further developing this
subbranch of transfiguration. I personally can see a number of
places where I might take this, but I'm interested in your
thoughts," Harry asked at one point.And then the third
group joined in. The dismissers; the rather sour grapes of the lot. 
"That barely used any techniques of transfiguration, Mr. Wood. Why
should this be considered for a Transfiguration mastery?" "I'd
hate to think a children's game is a valuable contribution to the
expansion of magic."But, in the end, Oliver
got his final smile from Harry Potter. He'd have an interesting
final evaluation before the Board of Mastery."On the 20th,
Oliver. I'll see you bright and early, then…" With that Harry
nodded to the others and got up. He walked over to the still erected
Everchanted Maze. "Ollie, how long will this last for? I forgot
to ask.""I've tested it out
to a month. It doesn't degrade or anything.""Amazing bit of
work."That was all the
recommendation he really needed.X-c-X-c-X-c-XThe people who were
walking along Diagon Alley in the mid-morning on January 11 were
shocked to suddenly see a massive marble wall rise up in front of the
storefront that housed the Potter Emporium.Just a few moments
later, massive black letters seemed to cut themselves into the thick
marble covering the storefront. "The Ministry of Magic has
illegally attempted to close this store. However, the warrant
presented does not possess the official magic of a magical
government. The documents below demonstrate that the Ministry of
Magic – and the original compact establishing it – was ended
nearly ten years ago, but no one informed the public. An illegal
government has operated inside Britain since then. We, the Potter
Emporium, refuse to allow an illegal, vigilante group calling itself
the Ministry of Magic to attempt to control our activities. Read,
become educated, and protect yourselves from these would-be
dictators. We will return when the people control the magic of
Britain again."A thick basket filled
with cogently written explanations appeared at the bottom edge of the
marble sheet. More out of curiosity than anything else, many people
picked up the pamphlets. When people started reading them, some had
to wonder if they were reading truth or a well-written article
cribbed from the Quibbler.And some actually
believed. And most didn't.Within the hour,
Ministry officials were attempting to blast the words from the marble
– and to penetrate inside the place of business. Others were
attempting to burn or otherwise destroy the pamphlets. Or to collect
them from the people who picked them up. But the charmed sheaves of
paper wouldn't burn, wouldn't be cut into ribbons, and wouldn't
leave those who had claimed them.Powerful magic, well
beyond anything the Ministry could conceive.So it was immediately
labeled seditious and Dark Magic.Very few noticed, but
the goblin-run bank called Gringotts became a flurry of activity once
the marble shield went up over the Potter Emporium. And, for the
first time in 572 years, Gringotts closed its doors and erected its
own form of shielding.An elegant script
danced magically over the clear, but palpable shield. "Gringotts
has known for nine and a half years that the magical compact that
created the Ministry of Magic was ended. However, no one would
believe a goblin making such claims, so we merely waited. We will
reopen once a new form of government is in place and effective. 
Perhaps this will speed up your thinking processes, wizards and
witches."The only thing the
first few witches and wizards who noticed the change to Gringotts
could make out was the sound of goblin laughter erupting from inside
the sealed building. They'd never played a better prank in their
many long years of dealing with rude, horrible humans. Perhaps now
people might pay attention to goblins. Perhaps.

