
Disclaimer:
Harry Potter Publishing Rights © J.K.R. Note the opinions in
this story are my own and in no way represent the owners of this
site. This story subject to copyright law under transformative use.
No compensation is made for this work.There
are many things in the world that humanity does not, and will never
understand. One such example is fate. In a place inconceivable to
mere humans, the collected beings known as 'The Gods' all stood in
their places around a huge, circular, stone table. The slab of rock
was a full hundred feet in circumference and approximately thirty
feet across its diameter. Covering the entire table top was a map of
the world, complete with mountains and seas, weather systems and
cities. It wasn't the usual view of the world, as one might expect to
see in an atlas, but was marked up as the wizarding world. Cities of
importance to the magical community were shown, as were the twelve
magical schools that existed around the globe. Those Gods around the
table were the powers that ruled over it, determining the fate of
witches and wizards everywhere. These were the powers-that-be, the
beings who controlled fate. At one position around the table stood
the God for Hate, and he was grumbling to himself."Come
on, Hate, it's been three and a half years," called the God for
Love from a few places down the table. "And it's not as if your
guy didn't have a good run before then anyway.""Be
quiet, Love. And just you wait. My champion will return, and when he
does, he's going to make yours suffer." Hate growled evilly at
his opposite in the celestial host."What?
You've already bound his powers to a condition that he falls in love
before they are unleashed. Chances are your champion will have found
a way back before mine has even had the chance to love anyone.""Exactly,
Love. You aren't as stupid as I thought.""Stuff
it, Hate. Love always triumphs over hate and you know it…."From
across the table, another god watched this exchange with curiosity.
The God for Fauna was generally loathed to get mixed up in the petty
squabbling that had perpetuated over the millennia between Love and
Hate. Usually, she played little part in this game of life, concerned
only when catastrophic events threatened her beloved animal kingdom.
At this time, however, completely on a whim, Fauna decided to have a
bit of fun. She would not be helping either cause, for her actions
could be seen as either a curse or a blessing, depending on your
point of view. She waited patiently until the dice of fate was in her
hands…Raymond
Smith was a man in his late twenties, although his greying hair, thin
physique and wearied face gave the impression he was nearing his
fortieth year. Life had clearly taken its toll on this young man, a
life which had had its fill of tests, tragedies and betrayals. There
was little of value left in Raymond Smith's life, but what little
there was he would protect with his life. He had to; there was no-one
else left.Ray,
as he was known to those he worked with and for, worked a night shift
as a security guard on an industrial complex in an uninspiring town
in Surrey. The pay wasn't substantial, but it was enough to get
through the week until next little brown envelope was passed his way.
Armed with a torch and his wits, five nights a week Ray Smith
wandered around the silent warehouses and factory buildings, passing
the hours patiently until morning, when he could resume his vigil,
watching over the boy.During
the daytime, and throughout the weekend, Ray sat in his car and
watched the house where the boy lived. Several years ago, he had
acquired a second-hand Ford Sierra for this very purpose. Every day,
the white saloon car with the beginnings of rust forming around the
wheel arches parked in a road called Privet Drive, outside number
seven. The residents obviously could see the car, but strangely
no-one ever paid it any heed, as if some strange force compelled them
not to notice it. This meant, of course, that Raymond Smith could
spend as long as he wanted simply watching the house where the boy
lived with his relatives – number four.One
resident, however, did notice Ray's car. It was of course, the boy
that Ray himself was watching. Each weekday morning, as the woman,
her fat, blond-haired son and the boy left the house to walk to the
local school, the boy's startling green eyes would stare across the
street to the battered white car. Ray's tired brown eyes met the
boy's piercing green, and for a split second each day they seemed to
share this moment of solidarity. The boy never spoke of the strange
man in the old white car to his guardians. He never spoke to them or
anyone hardly at all, as it happened, for reasons Ray Smith would not
discover for several years.July
31st
1985 was the boy's fifth birthday. It wouldn't be celebrated as a
child's birthday should be. There were to be no balloons, or a party,
or cards and presents. No, the boy's guardians, his aunt and uncle,
would not acknowledge this day at all. The boy himself was as
oblivious as his relatives were dismissive. This day would not be a
day of celebration, although that did not stop it from being
exceptional, and perhaps one of the most important days in the young
boy's life.As
usual, he woke when the vast forms of his uncle and cousin started
crashing about on the upper floor. Both being extensively overweight,
it gave the impression that a herd of elephants were stomping about
in the rooms above. In the cupboard under the stairs, the light of
the early morning sun filtered through the air-vent in the door, and
the boy watched the particles of dust as they danced in the rays of
light, blown every way as he exhaled. It was only when a swift
movement caught his eye that the boy's attention moved from the
dancing dust to a spider that was making its way silently along his
left arm.The
boy had grown used to spiders, having spent the last few years
sleeping in the house's under stairs cupboard, and at first glance
this one didn't seem particularly different. It was a bit bigger than
usual, perhaps, and maybe a different shape, but in the dingy light,
the five year old did not notice these things. What he did notice,
however, was very strange. Very strange indeed.As
the spider stepped lightly along the boy's arm, it was not the
feelings of tiny feet on his skin that he could sense, but the
feeling of soft skin against his own feet. For a boy of only a few
years, it was extremely difficult to understand. It was as if he was
experiencing the spider's own sense of touch. Unable to remain still,
the boy's arm moved involuntarily, yet he experienced the feeling of
unsteady ground. As the spider stepped deftly from the boy's exposed
forearm onto the fabric of his nightwear, the sensation changed. The
boy could feel the new texture underfoot. Hard to accept, though it
was, and nowhere near knowing why or how, the small boy concluded
that he was definitely feeling whatever the spider was touching.The
birthday boy wished that the spider would climb down on to the wooden
floorboards at the bottom of the cupboard door, just to be sure of
his conclusions. To his astonishment, the spider obliged, and crossed
the boys slender torso, clambered over his other arm and lowered
itself to the floor. Instantly, the sensation changed from fabric to
nothing, as it descended, to the cold dusty wood. The spider would
go, the boy learned, wherever he willed it to, and he was so absorbed
with his interaction with the eight-legged beast that he didn't even
notice the pachydermal steps of his uncle coming down the stairs."BOY!"
yelled Vernon Dursley. "GET OUT HERE NOW!""I
guess you'd better go away somewhere,"
thought the boy, thinking of the spider and hoping that it would
reappear later. What the boy did not expect, was for the arachnid to
dart back onto his body, up his left arm and onto his shoulder at the
base of his neck. The sensation of soft skin under his feet returned
as the spider crossed his narrow shoulder, but then evaporated.
Instinctively, the boy reached his right hand up to his left shoulder
where the spider had been a moment before, but it appeared to have
gone. Maybe it had carried on down his back and into the dark corners
of the cupboard.It
was only as the young boy climbed out of the dank and dark of the
Dursley's under stairs cupboard that he noticed something. Something
that was going to cause an almighty rumpus in the Dursley household.
Coiling around Harry's right wrist was a snake, or at least an image
of one. The head of the serpent stretched down his tiny hand, its
mouth open, fangs bared and tongue flicking outwards. The body then
coiled twice around his narrow wrist and forearm before the tail
rested half way towards the elbow.The
boy knew at once that he would be in trouble. Of course, he had
played no part in the arrival of this tattoo, which had appeared
during the night. Trying desperately to cover the black ink with his
left hand, he stole as quietly as possible into the kitchen, in
answer to his uncle's summons. Vernon Dursley was hidden behind a
vast newspaper as the boy crept towards his place at the table.
Petunia Dursley was bustling around the oven and hob, preparing a
veritable feast for her husband and son, who was yet to appear
downstairs for breakfast. The wooden kitchen chair was too heavy for
the small boy to lift, and his enforced dragging of the seat across
the tiled floor made a squeaking noise that caused Vernon Dursley to
look over his paper at his nephew."What
are you doing boy? Don't drag the chair across the floor like that,
I'm trying to read."The
nervous boy looked sheepish as he climbed awkwardly into the chair,
still trying to cover the snake tattoo on his right wrist and hand
with his left."What
are you fumbling about for, boy?" continued the unpleasant ogre
of a man. "And what's that guilty look on your face? What have
you done now boy?" Vernon asked menacingly.As
Vernon Dursley stared aggressively at his nephew, trying to discern
what heinous crimes against normality the boy had committed, the boy
looked down at the grain of the pine table, and kept his hands hidden
in his lap. Suddenly, Petunia Dursley shrieked, in a mixture of
fright, horror and surprise."V...V…Vernon
look. There….on the boy's neck." The long-faced woman was
still stood across the kitchen by the stove. One hand clasped to her
mouth in a gesture of shock, the other was pointing shakily at the
back of the boy's neck. Unknown to the boy himself, a second tattoo
was there."What
is it Petunia? Turn around boy so I can see," ordered Vernon.
The five year old boy swivelled around in the chair so that his back
was towards his uncle. This meant that he was now facing his aunt,
and could clearly see the look of revulsion that had replaced the
shock from moments before."What
have you done, you little freak?" hissed Vernon Dursley. The boy
instinctively reached his left hand up to the side of his neck,
trying to feel what had caused such consternation with his relatives,
but of course there was nothing to feel. Ashamed of whatever was now
on his neck, the boy's hand stayed there, vainly trying to cover what
was causing offence."Answer
me boy! What did you do?" commanded the reddening Vernon
Dursley. As the boy began to shake his head in response, Petunia
gave another cry, before stalking over to the table and grabbing her
nephew's right arm and forcibly lifting it into the air."Another
one, Vernon. And just as disgusting as the thing on his neck."At
this point, the young boy guessed that he must have another picture
on his neck, like the one that had appeared on his wrist. He was too
young to deduce that this may be connected to that strange spider. He
began to wonder what this second picture might be, when his aunt's
shrill voice continued its rant."Did
you draw these…these…abominations on yourself to frighten Dudley?
You must have stolen the pens. Not only are you a disgusting freak
but a thief as well." The boy shook his head throughout his
aunt's diatribe, barely resisting the urge to break down and cry at
her harsh words."Is
that it or are there any more?" continued the horse-faced woman.
"Take off your shirt so we can see what other disfigurements
you've inflicted upon us."The
boy was now stood with his back to the kitchen doorway. Petunia and
Vernon Dursley stepped back so they could get a good look at him, as
if he were some side-show freak to be gawked at. In their ignorance,
they were also reluctant to get too close in case they were infected
with this new level of freakishness, despite Petunia's assumption
that the images were drawn on with a pen.Petunia's
revolted face contorted even further if that was possible as her
nephew removed his too-big t-shirt. Vernon huffed and puffed in
disgust as the boy's exposed torso revealed a further two images. On
his chest, covering most of his undeveloped right pectoral muscle was
a black wolf. The image was 'drawn' from the side, showing the
beast's flank and legs. Its head was turned to the side, so was
looking out from the boy's body, rather than looking forward and in
profile. The confused and frightened child looked down at the wolf,
and saw a shaggy black dog. He was busy staring down at his own chest
when his aunt's voice spoke again."There,
on his other arm…"On
the outside of his left upper arm, just down from the shoulder a
fourth image resided. This one depicted a falcon of some kind. Like
the wolf and the snake, it too was black. The bird was shown as if in
flight, its talons outstretched towards some unseen prey and its beak
open in full battle cry.It
was at this point that Dudley Dursley, the boy's obese and spoiled
cousin, arrived in the kitchen doorway. His usual call asking what
was for breakfast was cut off mid flow when he saw his smaller
cousin's bare back a few feet into the kitchen."It's
alright, Popkin," called Petunia to her beloved son. Dudley did
not respond to her, however, but simply raised his hand at pointed at
his cousin's back, a look of incredulity on his face."What
is it Dudders?" asked Vernon, but without waiting for an answer
he bellowed at his nephew. "TURN AROUND."The
boy slowly turned so he was facing his cousin, and away from his aunt
and uncle. Dudley gasped in surprise when he saw the wolf, but that
was nothing compared to Petunia's half scream and Vernon's whispered
"Oh my God."Covering
almost his entire back was the face of a black panther. The face was
staring straight out from his back, its mouth open in aggression, and
teeth bared.Petunia
Dursley was the first to recover. "Listen to me, you little
freak. Get upstairs to the bathroom and start scrubbing. You'd better
pray that whatever you've done to yourself comes off again." The
boy didn't need a second invitation to get out of that kitchen, away
from the staring eyes of his 'family'. He raced upstairs to the
bathroom and reached up to turn on the taps. Glancing to his left
towards the mirror, he caught a glimpse of the image on his neck. It
was a spider's web, and in the centre was a spider.The
child still did not realise that the spider he had played with
earlier was identical to the image on his back left side of his neck.
He quickly returned to the job at hand though, and took a flannel
from the side of the bath and began scrubbing at the snake tattoo.
Obviously the scouring had no effect on the presence of the dark
pigment."Please
come off,"
thought the boy desperately, as he paused to hold the flannel under
the running water. Unbelievably, the image of the spider became more
solid, if that was possible. In fact, it should not have been, but
the inked image steadily became more lifelike, until it looked more
like a two dimensional, but nonetheless real snake wrapped around his
lower arm. All of a sudden, the two dimensional snake was solid – a
real snake coiled around the boy's slender wrist. He watched in
amazement as the snake's fangs folded back and its mouth closed. The
serpent's head lifted from the back of his hand and turned to stare
into the boys eyes, its tongue flicking ceaselessly. Where its head
had been, there was no hint of a tattoo remaining on the boy's skin.
The serpent was virtually black in colour, was perhaps eighteen
inches long and about an inch in diameter. The boy was surprised by
the dry warmth of the animal's body, still being of an age that
thought snakes were cold and slimy creatures.In
the same way the boy had felt what the spider felt, he now seemed to
be tasting what the snake could taste. The darting tongue could
discern taste of the boy's sweat in the air, the heady scents of a
perfumed soap, and the chemical aroma of a man's shampoo. At first,
the odd sensations threatened to overwhelm the boy, leaving him
feeling nauseous, but the feeling was forgotten when the snake
hissed."Ssssomething
comessss."He
could understand the snake. He knew it had hissed and not spoken, for
that would be impossible. Even a five year old understood that a
snake could not speak like a person. His naïve thought processes
were soon interrupted when the heavy footsteps of the boy's
over-sized cousin pounded up the stairs. Unsure of what to do about
the snake, the boy looked towards the bathroom door, through which
his cousin was likely to burst at any moment. The thudding steps
reached the landing and approached the bathroom. The door was pushed
open with a bang."Daddy
says you're to get back down to the kitchen now, freak."The
smaller child looked back at his wrist, and was relieved to see that
the real snake had gone, and was a picture on his hand and wrist once
more.The
boy shivered slightly in the coolness of the early morning. The
height of summer it may be, but the mornings were still fresh before
the sun raised high in the sky. From around eleven o'clock, the heat
would begin to feel uncomfortable, but that was still a few hours
away, and the five year old boy's shirt lay on the kitchen floor
where it had been dropped as he bolted from the room. He followed his
unkind cousin down the stairs, trembling with cold but mostly from
terrified anticipation. His aunt and uncle were not forgiving people,
except when their own son was concerned, and the boy fully expected
to be punished heavily for this unexplainable occurrence."Well?"
snapped Petunia Dursley as the boy followed his waddling cousin back
into the kitchen. The small child with hair as black as coal looked
down at the floor and shook his head."You
little freak! You did this on purpose to cause us trouble didn't
you?" Petunia marched towards her nephew and grabbed his arm,
causing his face to contort in pain. As she dragged him towards the
cupboard under the stairs, her rant continued."You
will stay in there until your uncle and I decide what to do with
you." There was venom in her voice by now, pure unadulterated
hatred. Despite the precarious nature of his situation, and the
likelihood of an extremely unpleasant punishment to follow, the boy
was relieved to be back in the dark of the cupboard. This was his
space, more so than any other. At least for a few moments he was away
from the loathing, staring eyes of his 'family' and hidden away in
the one place that was familiar and comforting to him. His aunt had
closed the ventilation grill on the cupboard door, so that the only
light was that which crept through the crack at the bottom of the
door. In the dusty gloom, the boy could vaguely make out darkness on
his wrist where the snake picture lay. As he lay down on his tiny
bed, the boy remembered the spider that he played with earlier."Spider?"
he thought to himself. After barely a moment, he felt it. The
sensation of soft skin under his feet."Come
down here to the bottom of the door so I can see you," he
thought. The boy felt various sensations as the spider obediently
moved across the boy's shoulders and down his arm to the floorboards
and into the chink of light at the foot of the cupboard door, where
it stood expectantly. The boy shuffled around so he was lying on his
right side, propped on his right elbow and saw the arachnid properly
for the first time. He tried talking to it, but nothing happened
unless he was giving an instruction to do something, but in the dark
of the cupboard there wasn't much the spider could do. The spider
didn't need to be spoken to out loud anyway. The boy could merely
think his instructions for the spider to obey him.Concluding
the spider did not speak, he thought once again about the snake. The
snake had definitely spoken to him, or at least he had understood the
snake's hiss."I
wish the snake were here again,"
he thought to himself and within a few moments, he felt the warm
sensation against his wrist once more, as the snake tattoo morphed
into reality. The boy's naïve mind failed to grasp the enormity
of what had just transpired, and consequently he responded to the
snake's presence quite like one might greet a playmate."Hi!""You
mussst sssspeak in thissss language, chossssen one.""OK.
How?""Jusssst
want to do it."The
boy screwed up his face in concentration, desperately trying to
understand how to comply with the snake's instruction."Issss
thissss right?""Yessss,
you are now sssspeaking like one of us.""Why
can I talk ssssnake? I couldn't talk to the sssspider.""I
know not why. You can command the sssspider, the wolf, the falcon,
the panther and mysssself with your thoughtssss, but how you can talk
to me issss a mysssstery."The
spider, which had been forgotten by the boy as his attention focussed
on the snake instead, had returned to its position its web – the
tattooed web on the boy's neck. It was fortunate that it had
returned, for the boy had not heard the leaden footsteps of his uncle
pound across the hall to the stairs.The
enraged man yanked open the cupboard door with such vehemence that
the boy jumped in alarm, which is hard to do when half-lying down
inside a small cupboard. Expecting to feel the fullest extent of his
uncle's wrath, the boy tried in vain to shrink back into the
cupboard. The strong podgy fingers closed around his upper left arm,
however, and heft him out of the cupboard and onto his feet in the
hall in one swift, practiced motion.Unable
to suppress his emotion as the pain of his uncle's grip seized his
slender shoulder, the boy grimaced, but desperately managed to fight
back the whimper that was longing to escape his lips."What
was all that hissing about, boy?" demanded the great whale of a
man. As the frightened boy quivered in his uncle's shadow, the
bullying man continued to railroad his nephew. "More of your
disgusting freakiness, I'll bet. Now then you little waste of space,
get in the kitchen so your aunt and I can talk to you." With
that instruction, Vernon Dursley turned on his heel and marched into
the kitchen.The
boy followed obediently, and instantly went to retrieve his t-shirt
from where it had previously been discarded. Dudley Dursley sat at
the kitchen table, gleefully stuffing his already multi-chinned face
with crumpets. Petunia Dursley was in her usual place – leaning
against the units to the right of the oven. Her arms were crossed and
her lips drawn tightly. Her usual pale complexion was unusually
tinged with red; the day's revelations had clearly been distressing
for such a well-to-do member of the community.Vernon
Dursley took his place at the table and reached for a crumpet for
himself. The boy stood to the side of the table and struggled into
the old t-shirt that he wore practically all the time. In fact, he
only really took it off when it was being washed, a task which his
aunt conceded had to be done occasionally. Eventually, when the boy
was clothed once more, and Vernon Dursley had consumed his buttered
crumpet, Petunia spoke. Her tone of voice wasn't the sweet, sickly
one she reserved for Dudley, or even the spiteful tone the boy
usually received. This time, for the first time, Petunia Dursley
spoke with complete indifference."We
have put up with your unnaturalness for too long, and we will have it
no longer. You no longer live here. You're a freak, like your
parents. I hope I never have to see you again."The
boy looked up at his aunt in horror. He didn't like his aunt and
uncle, and was old enough to realise that they didn't like him, but
his barely five year old mind couldn't comprehend the meaning of his
aunt's words. Where did he live then? The answer soon became
apparent, as Vernon Dursley shot up from the table, melted butter
dribbling down his moustache and snatched up his car keys from the
kitchen worktop."Get
your shoes on, boy," growled the man, as he strode past the
shell-shocked child and headed into the hall. The boy obeyed
mechanically, as he had been conditioned to do over the last few
years. Disobedience led to punishment; that was a lesson that a five
year old could understand. Barely a few minutes later, Vernon
Dursley's car pulled out of the driveway of number four, Privet
Drive. One small passenger sat in the back seat, alone and confused.
The Dursley's shiny silver Volvo moved slowly passed an old white
Ford Sierra. Vernon Dursley scarcely noticed the other vehicle, but
his passenger stared pleadingly at the brown-eyed man who sat in the
driver's seat. For the briefest of moments their eyes met, and
Raymond Smith knew at once that something important had transpired.
Immediately he started up the engine of his old car, and prepared to
follow the boy, wherever they were headed.Vernon
Dursley drove north towards London, completely unaware that he had
been followed the entire way by a brown haired man in an old white
Ford Sierra. He was more concerned with the activities of his
passenger, his five year old nephew. The boy was characteristically
still and silent, and passed the majority of the journey staring
dispassionately out of the car's windows.The
boy watched with little interest as the suburban drabness of Little
Whinging was quickly left behind. The arable fields of the
South-Eastern county followed, but these were soon superseded by the
conurbations that marked the beginnings of London. The regular houses
and town buildings gave way to imposing streets in the centre of the
city, as Vernon Dursley guided the silver Volvo through the traffic
of central London.The
boy regarded all the different buildings and monuments in the city
with curiousity, having never been out of Little Whinging before
today. He wondered at the enormity of everything. Every street was
lined with shops, houses or offices that were all four or five
stories high at least. Then there were the apartment blocks that rose
high into the sky, and the office blocks, and a huge church with a
giant dome on the top. Everything in London was on a grand scale, and
as the boy realised his uncle was now looking for somewhere specific,
the size of everything began to frighten him. Surely they were not
expecting him to live here?After
several minutes of muttering and grumbling, Vernon Dursley brought
the car to a halt at the side of a wide road. They had driven through
the commercial district and had come to a more residential area of
London. Occasional houses were being used as offices for small
professional firms, accountancy practices, law firms and the like.
The houses that lined both sides of this street made up a resplendent
looking Georgian terrace. Each individual dwelling was tall, with
five stories, and narrow. They would no doubt go back a long way from
the road as well. The door to the house outside which uncle and
nephew were now parked was painted black, although the paint was old
and peeling at the edges. To the side of the door, on the stone of
the surround, was a brass sign, etched into which were the words:ST CHRISTOPHER'S
ORPHANAGEA HOME FOR LOST
SOULSVernon
Dursley twisted his bulky frame around so that he could talk to the
silent boy."Listen,
boy. You get out of the car and go up to that black door. You wait
until you can't see the car anymore before you knock on the door. Do
you understand?"The
boy nodded vaguely, choosing to remain silent as usual."Finally
we'll be rid of you. Now get out, you worthless little freak, and
remember what I just told you." Vernon Dursley almost had glee
in his voice as his spoke to his nephew for the very last time. As
the boy struggled to push open the heavy door of the large car,
Vernon Dursley turned back round in his seat and put the car into
gear. As soon as he heard the thud of the door closing, he took off,
without a second glance or thought to the five year old boy he had
just heartlessly abandoned at an orphanage in the middle of London.The
boy stood on the pavement watching the silver car disappearing up the
wide street. Even after his uncle had long gone, he stood there,
waiting for the Volvo to return. After about twenty minutes, the boy
wiped away a tear that had begun to slide down his cheek, and turned
to look at the building he was to live in for the next few years.The
house was made of a grey stone, rather than the bright, modern bricks
of his aunt and uncle's house. There were six steps up to the black
front door with the peeling paint, such that the ground floor was
well above street level. A gate in a metal railing led to steps down
to another door into the house and a basement window. The door was
unused and boarded over however, and rubbish and leaves from the
street above collected in the small space at the foot of the stone
steps.Including
the basement, the building appeared to have five floors, each with
large, old sash windows facing onto the street. As with the front
door, the window frames were tired and in need of attention, as they
were dirty, peeling and rotten in occasional places. This was
attention that a church funded orphanage could not afford, however.
Although the boy could not tell this from the outside, this house and
the two to its left were knocked through inside to become one
address. The orphanage took up three of these old Georgian
townhouses, from their basements to rooftop gardens. Eventually,
after several further minutes of deliberation, the boy crossed the
wide pavement and slowly climbed the steps. At the top, he stretched
up to reach an ornate but tarnished door knocker.Down
the street, Raymond Smith watched the heart-breaking scene unfold
with a lump in his throat. Having realised where the Dursley brute
was bringing the boy, Ray willed him to walk up the steps to the
orphanage. It was far too dangerous for a five year old boy to wander
off into London – he would be safe here. As the small figure
finally chose to knock on the black door, Ray felt a sense of relief.
He felt guilty that he could not offer the boy a place to stay, it
was simply too dangerous. He needed to make some modifications to his
house in Devon first, and then he would return and see about taking
the boy to live with him.The
main office to the St. Christopher's orphanage was situated in the
first room off the hallway, on the right hand side as you faced the
building. It was a large, high room; with space enough for four
desks, cupboards, book shelves and filing cabinets. The furniture was
generally old and tatty, and largely reflected the state of the
outside of the building. Clearly St. Christopher's did not have spare
cash to lavish on soft furnishings or outward appearances. Midday
sunlight streamed through the large sash window in the front wall of
the office. An old, slatted blind hung awkwardly across the top
quarter of the glass, but its tangled cord and apparent fragility
meant it was never touched, even on the brightest of days.Each
of the four desks was laden with files, in-trays and other typical
office paraphernalia. It was behind one of these busy desks that
Elizabeth Rutherford was sitting, as she read through one of several
files that were scattered in front of her. Occasionally she would
make a note in it, or jot down a comment on a notepad. Mrs.
Rutherford had been an orphan herself, but now, as she approached her
sixtieth year, it was of little consequence. She was a tall, striking
woman with mostly grey hair that was lazily pulled back into a
ponytail. Her brown eyes gave a soft, comforting quality to her round
face.She
had spent her early years in an orphanage such as this, before moving
on to a foster family at the age of eleven. From then on, she had had
a good life, full of opportunities. Her foster parents were
God-fearing folk, sensible and kind. They believed in the teachings
of the bible and brought up Elizabeth with traditional Christian
values. She was always provided with everything she needed, and
occasionally received some of the things she wanted, too. Elizabeth
studied theology at university, where she met the man who was to
become her husband. They lived happy, fulfilling lives until Mark
Rutherford succumbed to cancer, while only in his late forties.
Relying on her faith, and the support of her church, Elizabeth soon
started on building a new dream – St. Christopher's Orphanage, and
now, after fourteen years, she was looking after thirty-two young
orphans, although many more had come and gone in that time.It
was just after noon when she was disturbed from her reading by the
clunking sound of someone knocking on the front door, so she
concisely placed her file down on the desk and headed towards the
hallway. The inside of the peeling black door was equally shabby as
the front. Dust and cobwebs gathered in the corners of the hall, and
old grey carpet was worn and dirty. Mrs. Rutherford released the
catch on the lock, and tugged open the heavy door, overcoming the
stiff and rusted hinges with a well practiced yank.It
took a moment for the woman to glance down and notice the small boy
looking up at her. For an instant, she was mesmerised by the
intensity in the child's fiercely green eyes; their depth utterly
absorbing. With a shake of her head, the orphanage's principal forced
herself to regard the rest of the boy – he was young, perhaps four
or five and dressed in ill-fitting and dirty clothes. His unkempt
hair and distressed features suggested a recent traumatic experience
for the poor lad. Of course, Elizabeth Rutherford did not realise
that every single day had been potentially traumatic for this
particular child."Hello
young man," Mrs Rutherford began in her friendliest tone. "Can
I help you with something?"The
black haired boy said nothing, but continued to stare pleadingly up
at the kindly middle-aged lady before him."Do
you know what this place is?"The
boy shook his head slightly, his gaze instantly snapping back to meet
the eyes of the woman above him."How
did you get here?"Again
the boy with the messy black hair and startling eyes said nothing,
but at this question his head turned and he looked wistfully up the
street for a few seconds, before turning back to kind lady."Did
someone leave you here?" she asked with a resigned sigh, knowing
full well that this boy was about to join her collection of waifs and
strays. The orphanage was already full, running on the goodwill of
the church and struggling to find staff, but this boy's gaze had
hypnotised Elizabeth Rutherford. She doubted if she would ever be
able to say no to this boy.As
the boy began to nod, she crouched down to address him on his own
level. "Well then, young man, I think perhaps you had better
come inside."The
older woman led the silent child into the office, where she cleared a
stack of files from an old wooden chair with a padded seat and
gestured to him that he should sit down. The boy's eyes darted around
the room as the lady busied herself clearing one of the desks and
then retrieving some items from a cupboard. As his hands gripped the
wooden armrests of the chair, the boy could feel the grain of the
wood, how it was worn smooth by many hundreds of hands, over the
years. The air in this funny house tasted very slightly dusty in his
mouth, a stark contrast to the pristine cleanliness of his aunt and
uncle's home, under stairs cupboard excepting.After
a few minutes of shuffling things about, locating specific pieces of
paper and, to the boy's pleasant surprise, a half-eaten packet of
biscuits which she placed on the edge of the desk, in front of where
the boy was sitting, Mrs. Rutherford sat at her desk."Please
help yourself to a Rich Tea," the lady said, as she began to
sort her newly acquired sheets of paper into an empty file. The boy
reached forward nervously and fumbled for a moment with the packet,
trying to work one of the smooth, pale biscuits loose. Finally, he
sat back in the seat with his prize, and began to nibble gingerly
around the edge, clearly trying to make it last as long as possible."Now
then, young man. Will you tell me your name please?" The boy
looked blankly back at the woman."Your
name? What is your name?" Still the boy did not respond, but
continued to look straight back at her. In her surprise at not
getting an answer, she missed the boy's slight shrug. With many
years' worth of experience dealing with difficult and unresponsive
children, Elizabeth Rutherford changed her approach."Would
you like to live here, have a nice warm bed, plenty of meals, and
lots of other boys and girls to make friends with?" She spoke
with the kindest, softest voice she could muster, and looked back at
the boy with a tender smile and kind eyes. The boy's eyes bore into
her own, but Mrs. Rutherford held his gaze, silently thanking the
Lord for giving her strength and willpower. Eventually, after what
may have been as long as a few minutes, the boy spoke for the first
time that day, in the quietest of whispers."Yes
please."The
voice was soft and quiet, yes, but still it was determined and
hopeful at the same time. Letting out a long sigh, the old
administrator beamed at her new charge."You're
still going to have to tell me your name, I'm afraid.""I…I…don't
know." The boy stumbled over these three simple words, almost as
if ashamed of himself. Mrs. Rutherford was shocked by the boy's lack
of self-awareness and esteem."The
people who left you here, what did they call you?"The
small child looked down into his lap. After a pause, and a hitch of
his shoulders, he spoke for a third time, but this time was the
quietest of all."Boy
or….freak."The
aging woman feigned deafness as she struggled to deal internally with
the words that had just managed to escape the boy's lips. Hiding her
anger that humanity could be so cruel to a tiny child, she forged on,
deliberately not acknowledging the boy's answer."Well,
how about we call you Adam, that's a good biblical name for a
handsome young boy. Adam…Black. How does that sound? I have to have
names to put in the files so we get funding…"The
boy didn't really understand the old woman's words about funding and
files. He liked his new name though – Adam Black. After the woman
had spent a few minutes writing on forms and talking about things the
boy didn't comprehend, she suddenly shut her file, placed a lid on
her pen and pushed her seat back from the desk."Come,
young Adam Black, let us go and find you a room to sleep in, some
clean clothes to wear and someone your own age to be your friend."
Elizabeth Rutherford took Black gently by the hand, and led him back
out into the hallway, up the stairs and into the heart of the
orphanage.Meanwhile,
outside on the street, Raymond Smith was waiting. He had watched the
woman have a conversation with the boy, and he had seen how she
compassionately welcomed him inside. Now he was waiting to make sure
the boy wasn't to be ejected again, and be left alone on the streets
of London. After several hours of conflicting emotions, Raymond Smith
turned the key of his old Sierra, revved the engine, and set off to
do battle with the traffic of England's capital city, leaving the boy
he had been watching for the last few years in the capable hands of
St. Christopher.





--------




A/N
Just wanted to say a big thank you to those of you who reviewed the
last chapter. There's going to have to be more if you want chapter 3
though!A
massive thankyou to my fabulous beta, Starry Night Blue, who rocks.Chapter
2: In which young Harry Potter learns about animals and other thingsElizabeth
Rutherford led five year old Adam Black up to the top floor of St.
Christopher's Orphanage. The staircases, hallways and landings were
all equally drab and dreary as those on the ground floor. Several
times, Adam heard the sounds of children laughing, shouting and on
one occasion, crying from behind the many closed doors that the aging
lady took him past. The pair stopped at a nondescript white-washed
wooden door. Just like all the other doors they had passed, this one
was dusty, its paint was in need of a new coat, and the once shiny
brass handle was tarnished and dull.There
was no sound coming from behind this door, Adam noticed as he waited
for Mrs. Rutherford to retrieve a set of keys from the pocket of her
sensible, grey cardigan. As she rifled through the numerous keys,
Adam glanced down the landing and noticed a pair of eyes peering at
him from a doorway that had been opened just enough for a girl about
his own age to stick her head out. The girl gave him a big smile
before disappearing back behind the door once more. By this time,
Mrs. Rutherford had located the key and opened the door, whereby she
proceeded into the room beyond, which turned out to be a room full of
clothes."Well
come in then. We need to find you some more clothes," stated the
principal. "Ones that fit you," she added as an
afterthought.Adam
followed the woman into the clothes room where he stopped to look
around in wonder. Every square inch of the ten foot square room was
taken up with clothes. Around the floor were shoes ranging from tiny
baby shoes up to shoes for teenagers. They were all second hand, but
all were in better condition than the pair of handed-down, holey
plimsolls Adam was currently wearing. Racks upon racks of t-shirts,
shirts, tops, jumpers, trousers, skirts, dresses, shorts and coats
were arranged in increasing sizes across two sides of the room. On
another wall was shelf upon shelf of socks, underwear and pyjamas.
All these items were new; it appeared to Adam, who was wondering if
he was going to be given some new clothes of his own. On the wall
with the door were cupboards containing clean towels and dressing
gowns. These were not new, but were clean and perfectly functional,
although they lacked a little softness."Right
then, Adam." Elizabeth Rutherford's voice raised the boy from
his bewilderment. "Let's start with underwear shall we."
The black haired boy nodded in agreement, not having the daring to
disagree with the woman, who was well into her stride now as an
efficient carer and administrator. As it happened, she was trying
desperately to focus on the job in hand and not risk looking into the
boy's eyes, lest she would be so distracted by the tortured soul that
could be seen there, that she would not be able to care for him
objectively.Adam
held out his arms as his newfound guardian loaded him up with pants,
socks, vests and pyjamas, before moving on to the rails of clothes
for children his age."Any
colour you prefer?""Black,"
mumbled Adam, after a pause."Black?
Are you sure?" the matron queried. She turned to look at the boy
and saw a look of determination there she knew she couldn't argue
with. Something about those eyes simply controlled her. Luckily, Adam
chose that moment to put the pile of underwear down next to him,
ready to hold whatever she gave him next. As he did so, Elizabeth
turned back to the clothes rails and began sifting through, looking
for a selection of black items to clothe her newest charge.Finally,
after what seemed like and inordinately long time to the five year
old, the pair left the clothes room, both laden with all the clothes,
shoes, towels and a dressing gown that Adam would need. After Mrs.
Rutherford had awkwardly managed to lock the door while she balanced
her pile of things on one arm, she led the boy further down the
landing. Adam glanced behind him towards the doorway the little girl
had been peeking out of, and was surprised to see her smiling face
looking at him once again.Five
doors down from the clothing room and on the opposite side of the
corridor, Mrs. Rutherford guided the boy into his new bedroom. "This
will be your bedroom, Adam. What do you think?"Adam
failed to respond to the older woman, but she was getting used to the
fact that this boy didn't say very much. She did notice how he
regarded the room with an amount of awe, as if he hadn't seen a
bedroom before. But then, judging by how he had arrived here, and the
fact that he was an orphan, perhaps he had never had slept in a
bedroom before now. He wouldn't be the first to have come to the
orphanage like that, and sadly, he wouldn't be the last.The
boy's eyes swept around the small room. It was small by the standards
of his whale of a cousin, but to Adam, who could only remember the
cupboard under the stairs, the room was huge. There was a bed, of
course, a small desk and chair, a chest of drawers and a child's
wardrobe. On one wall was a shelf, and opposite the door was a sash
window. Adam's first sweep of the room identified all these things,
but his second look round revealed more detail. There was a dark blue
carpet on the floor. It wasn't thick and fluffy like his Aunt's but
it was a step up from the cold, rough floorboards he was used to. The
window was framed by blue curtains with stars and moons on, which
matched the covers on the bed. This bed had a real pillow, too, not
just an old cushion that nobody wanted anymore. Adam wondered if he
could get into the bed right now, it looked so comfortable.After
those moments looking round the room, Adam followed Mrs. Rutherford's
example and put the pile of clothes he was carrying on the bed,
before looking at her expectantly."You
wait here a moment, Adam. I'm just going to get someone I'd like you
to meet."Adam
shrugged slightly at her words, and sat down on the bed as she headed
out of the room. His hands absent-mindedly stroked the duvet cover,
and he revelled in the softness of the fabric against his fingertips,
while his eyes began scanning around the room once more.Unlike
the hallways and landings, Adam's bedroom was clean, and much
brighter. The walls were painted a neutral but light cream colour.
The furniture was only pine, but was in good order and had been kept
free from dust and dirt. The window frame on the inside was in good
repair, and recently repainted. Elizabeth Rutherford certainly
diverted considerably more funds to the children's wellbeing than she
did to the building's.After
a few minutes, Mrs. Rutherford returned to find Adam sitting on the
bed, apparently staring into space. "Adam?" she called.
"This is Grace. She would very much like to be your friend."The
boy quickly turned to look at the girl who stood in the doorway
behind Mrs. Rutherford. It was the same girl who had been watching
him from down the corridor, and, just as before, she had a big smile
on her face. Adam couldn't help himself but smile at the girl in
return, possibly the first genuine smile he had managed in many
years. To hear that someone wanted to be his friend was like nectar
to a bee, and something he had longed for, for as far back as he
could remember."Well,
I'll leave you two to get to know each other. Grace, help Adam to
find his way around, and don't forget dinner at five thirty." "Yes,
Mrs. Rutherford," answered the little girl politely. Turning
back to Adam, her face still smiling infectiously, she soon
instructed him in where to put all his new clothes and shoes, how his
dirty clothes should go in the laundry basket in the corner, where to
find the bathroom and toilet on this floor and many other similar
functions. After explaining where everything was on the top floor,
where their bedrooms were located, the tiny pair looked around the
whole of the orphanage; Grace showing Adam the classrooms, the dining
room, the common rooms, where the office was and how to get outside
into the garden. After about an hour of looking around the old
building, both children were starting to tire, having walked up and
down many of the old building's staircases. Eventually, they arrived
back at Adam's bedroom, where Grace asked him the question that had
been on her lips for a while."What's
that on your neck?" She pointed to the spider's web tattoo on
the rear left side of Adam's neck.Self-consciously,
Adam reached up and rubbed the place he knew the spider and its web
to be. "I think it's called a tat-too," Adam replied. Over
the last hour or so, he had become more talkative with Grace than he
had been with anyone before. She wasn't threatening, or dominating.
She didn't look down on him and make him feel small or insignificant.
Grace was just inquisitive, smiley and full of chatter, and Adam was
swept along with it."It's
creepy. Why do you have spider's web tat-too?""Don't
know," the boy shrugged. "I've got more." Adam
proceeded to take off his old t-shirt, causing Grace to gasp in
surprise."I
like the bird one," said Grace. "But the rest are a bit
scary.""I
know. I don't know how I got them. I just woke up yesterday and they
were there. My aunt and uncle were mad at me. Please don't tell
anyone about them, will you.""OK,
Adam. I won't.""Promise?""Promise."The
two five year olds talked for a while longer, until they moved to
Grace's room to look at some of her books and play with her toys;
things she had acquired since she had been staying at St.
Christopher's. They looked out of the window and Grace showed Adam
how to make shapes in the clouds. For the first time in his life,
Harry Potter, now known as Adam Black, was happy,Dinner
at the orphanage was nothing spectacular, but it was wholesome, fresh
and healthy. Adam received a portion appropriate to a boy of his age,
rather than the miserly portions his aunt used to serve him with.
Having missed lunch entirely, he was fairly hungry, but years of
underfeeding had left the boy immune to the pangs of hunger. For
children in the nursery aged five and under, they had to be in bed by
half past seven. Mrs. Rutherford came to check Adam had everything he
needed, and having provided him with his own toothbrush, paste, and
soap, Adam Black was settled in for the first night of his new life.It
was during this time at the end of the day that young Adam secretly
brought out the snake from his wrist. As soon as the snake told him
he could do the same with the other tattoos, Adam spent every night
with a falcon perched atop his wardrobe. A large and unusual spider
made a web and resided in a dark corner underneath the functional
wooden desk. A black wolf cub slept curled up on the end of the boy's
duvet and a sleek and glossy, not quite fully grown, black panther
slumbered on the floor by the side of the bed. The snake generally
found a warm spot, underneath the desk where hot water pipes ran
beneath the floorboards.Although
he could instruct the five creatures using mental suggestions, it was
only the snake who could communicate in words. It was via the hissing
language that Adam firstly learned the purpose of these magical
creatures. The snake gave him the sense of taste, and represented
cunning and ambition. The falcon was the gift of sight, but also
stood for courage. The wolf brought the sense of smell, and the
virtue of loyalty, whereas the panther provided hearing and
represented intelligence. Finally the spider was to be his sense of
touch, and embodied all of these virtues together.During
the evenings, when Adam was supposed to be going to sleep, he would
let the two larger animals play; they would roll around, wrestle and
chase each other about the small room. He would stroke the soft
feathers of the falcon and share in hissed conversations with the
small black snake.As
the weeks progressed, Adam started to notice changes in himself. The
obvious benefits of sleeping in a proper bed and eating regular meals
were of obvious physical benefit, as much as the non-hostile
environment improved his emotional well-being. In addition to these
factors, however, Adam began to feel other things. Most obvious to
the boy, were his heightened physical senses. Each of the five senses
that his creatures represented had magnified in himself. As the
increases came gradually, Adam did not really notice all of a sudden,
but the steady improvement in his eyesight caused him to find his
glasses were of the wrong strength. He did not realise what was
happening each time he wished he could see clearly again, when his
vision started to blur. As his eyesight improved, however, he
realised his hearing and smell were getting better too. He knew what
was being cooked for dinner from four floors away, and he could
sometimes hear Grace talking to her toys from her room down the hall.A
heightening sense of taste meant that Adam could distinctly pick out
all the ingredients in whatever he ate, regardless of how well they
had been mixed together. This was not always a good thing, as a
sponge cake is meant to taste of sponge cake, not of flour, eggs,
butter and sugar. He senses of sight, hearing, smell and taste were
not to the extent that his animals had them, and when he tuned in to
their respective sensory gifts, he realised that although his own
were good, the creatures' senses were still far greater.Eventually
he began to notice the changes to his sense of touch. Each surface,
fabric or person he came into contact with began to feel unique.
There was an innate difference in the texture of his pine desk
compared to the old teak desks in the classrooms. The cotton of his
bedclothes contrasted significantly with the artificial feel that
some of his clothes had. All in all, the boy became extremely attuned
to everything that was going on around him.It
wasn't just sensory enhancements that the creatures evoked in Adam.
It seemed, within reason, that the longer his creatures spent 'out in
the open' rather than as tattoos on his small body, the more of their
physical attributes he developed also. He could not fly, like the
falcon, of course, but the strength of the wolf and the agility of
the panther did begin to manifest in the boy. The snake's reflexes
and the spider's speed further enhanced his physical abilities. As
the years ticked by, and the creatures all became fully grown Adam
Black became an incredible child.After
a couple of months at St. Christopher's, Adam realised that the
falcon, who spent many hours sitting atop the wardrobe staring
towards the window, had only ever flown around his small bedroom. He
had tried on many occasions to open the window, but it appeared to be
stuck fast. Now that he sensed the longing in his avian companion,
Adam desperately wished the heavy sash window would slide up,
allowing the majestic black bird of prey to stretch its wings and fly
off into the night. As soon as the thought finished forming in his
mind, Adam watched astonished as a crack appeared in the painted
window frame. With a creak, and a splitting sound, the lower sash
window slowly raised itself, enough for an adult falcon to go soaring
off into the starlit night."Whoa!"
cried out Adam, to no-one in particular. There was of course, no
other person in his room. Although Grace had seen his tattoos, he had
not shared the secret of the creatures with anyone. The slumbering
forms of panther and wolf raised their heads at his exclamation, saw
there was no need for concern, and both returned to their peaceful
dozing. The snake, however, slithered up from his warm spot
underneath the desk and coiled himself caringly around his master's
right arm."You
sssseem ssssurprissssed, young masssster.""The
window. It opened on itssss own.""Did
you not wissssh for it to be sssso?""I
did, but…""You
are a wizzzzard, are you not?""What?""You
are a wizzzzard, young one. A powerful wizzzzard, in fact, I believe
you are marked assss a champion of one of the Godssss.""I
don't undersssstand.""Then
I will explain, masssster. Firsssst, you are a wizzzzard. You have
magic in your blood, and you will learn to usssse and control it,
given time. I cannot help you with that, you musssst learn on your
own. When you wisssshed for the window to open, the magic power you
possssessss made it happen. Yessss, there issss much magic in you,
young masssster.Ssssecond,
there issss a mark upon you. It issss hidden deep insssside, deep
insssside your very ssssoul, sssshowing that you are the champion of
one of the Godssss. Of which one I cannot ssssay, again, thissss
issss a mysssstery for you to solve alone."A
stunned Adam didn't respond to the snake straightaway, allowing his
mind to b swamped by images from the falcon's eyes. Even though it
had flown high into the sky, the bird could see everything down in
the city as clearly as if it was merely perched on the roof of one of
London's old buildings. As the boy was drawn into to watching the
bird's first flight, he revelled in the speed of the lights rushing
past, after what seemed like only a few minutes, the black falcon,
like a shadow in the sky, raced away from the city and out above a
forest. Adam didn't know, of course, but this was Epping Forest, to
the north and east of London.Mesmerised
by the falcon's flight, Adam forgot about the snake's words for the
time being. The flight of the bird excited and exhilarated him, as it
dived lower, into the trees and weaved through the canopy, searching
for some unwitting prey. Soon, the hunt was over, and as the raptor
tore into the fur and flesh of a young rabbit, Adam brought his mind
back to his bedroom, not wanting to watch a rabbit ripped apart.Seeing
the snake still wrapped affectionately around his right arm, Adam
suddenly remembered the incredibly words it had spoken; of wizards
and champions. Sensing the question forming in the boy's mind, the
black-skinned reptile lifted its head to its master once more."Yessss,
young masssster?""You
said that I am a wizard?""Yessss.""So
I can do magic?""Yessss.""How?""How
did you open the window?""I
don't know. I jusssst wanted it to open.""Then
it ssssoundssss like you have your ansssswer.""What?""You
wisssshed for the window to open, and sssso it did. What else do you
wissssh for, young masssster?"The
five year old boy's eyes grew wide as the snake's words dawned on
him. As the young mind comprehended the possibilities in front of
him, his naïve imagination reeled with endless thoughts and
ideas. Eventually, after experimenting with many things, the
exhausted but elated child fell into a deep slumber.The
months and years passed for the boy known as Adam Black. At night,
hidden in his bedroom, this exceptional child continued to grow in
extraordinary ways. Thanks to the influence of his animal companions,
his senses peaked at a point somewhere between two and three times
more sensitive than 'normal' wizards. His physical development also
continued apace. No longer small for his age, the child was in fact
slightly above average by the summer of his seventh year, but his
speed, reflexes and strength were several years ahead of that.His
relationship with the five creatures had become one of complete
acceptance. They were apart of him, an extension of his own body of
which he had complete control, and he could tap into each animal's
sensory gift at will; the majestic falcon's eyesight, the sleek
panther's hearing, the warm wolf's nose, the guiding snake's taste
and the odd spider's sense of touch.Finally,
there was magic. Ever since the first night when the snake told Adam
he was a wizard, the boy practiced and experimented and tried out
ideas that popped into his head. After approximately two years, he
felt as if he could do anything. He could move things around simply
by directing his thoughts, make things disappear with a wave of his
hand, or change into something else. Recently he had managed to
transport himself back to his empty bedroom from other places around
the orphanage, although it had made him feel really weird the first
few times.During
the boy's eighth year, his third at the orphanage, he discovered how
to create things. He had been lying on his bed, trying to feel the
magic inside him. What
did it feel like to be a wizard?
He wondered, not emotionally, but physically. And so, lying in the
dark, the seven and a bit year old wizard focussed his thoughts on
himself, searching for the source of his magical abilities.As
he lay in the dark, he could hear the steady beat of his heart. He
could feel the rise and fall of his chest as his breathing fell into
time with the rhythmic snuffly snoring of the wolf, which lay at the
end of his bed. After what could have been seconds, minutes or maybe
as long as an hour, he found it. There was a faint tingle, the
tiniest of sensations, deep within his chest. As the boy focussed
upon it, the tingle spread slowly, down into his abdomen and up
towards his shoulders. Soon, his entire torso throbbed with pulsing
energy, but he forced it to spread down his arms and legs and up his
neck into his face. Finally, the pulsing, throbbing, sensation
ignited his entire sensory system with a feeling so intense the boy
could barely remain still. Fighting the urge to twitch and spasm, the
sensational overload dissipated, leaving in its place the strange
knowledge that a wondrous fire burned in his veins. However, Adam
Black was left with the understanding of what magic was, and how to
control it.The
young boy sat up on his bed, and assumed a cross-legged posture. The
wolf, in its usual place towards the foot of the bed moved to the
floor at its master thought. Adam held his hands out in front of his
body, placing them together and forming a cup shape. Concentrating on
the sensation of flaming energy he could feel within himself, he
mentally forced that feeling, starting at his heart, down his arms
and into his hands. Along his fingers he pushed until the raw, innate
magic struggled desperately beneath the skin of his palms, fighting
to be released into existence. Holding back for a few moments, to
savour the moment, the feeling of anticipation was too much for the
child and he allowed the crackling, bluish energy to flow from his
hands into the waiting hollow they made together.The
swirling, energy coalesced into a ball of writhing blue flames about
two inches in diameter. They were not hot, or cold in anyway, merely
pleasant and surprisingly soothing to hold. Concentrating further,
Adam willed the sphere of energy into a solid shape, and in barely a
moment, the comforting softness of the magic was replaced by the
cold, heaviness of a flawless, black, glass marble. Satisfied with
his night's work Adam Black placed the black sphere on the desk which
stood at the side of his bed. He commanded the marble not to roll,
despite the slight slope of the old desk, and it remained stationary,
held by magic to defy gravity until such time as the enchantment was
released. Falling back on to his bed, the boy was asleep in moments,
and even failed to stir when the adult male wolf leapt nimbly to lie
on the bottom end of the deep blue duvet.During
the days, Adam spent most of his time with his friend Grace, who
slept in the room down the hall. She kept to her promise, and
continually remained silent about the tattoos which adorned the boy
she knew to be called Adam Black. Due to Adam's solitary nature, the
pair spent little time with the other children of the orphanage; one
friend was enough for the unusual boy. Grace, on the other hand,
would have welcomed more friends in her life, but no-one really had
any desire to become close to her, in case it also meant coming close
to the black-haired boy with the startling green eyes. Resigned,
Grace willingly sacrificed the chance to make more friends, so that
she could keep her connection with Adam. He had been hopelessly alone
when he first arrived, and, being an exceptionally kind child, she
could bear the idea of abandoning her relationship with him, leaving
him alone once more.One
evening, towards the middle of July of Adam's eighth year, Grace was
moving alone through one of the many hallways in the orphanage. It
was approaching curfew for the children of her age, and Adam was
already back in his room. He always went to bed diligently before
lights out, something she didn't really understand, and never knew
the reason why. On this occasion however, Grace found she was not
alone in the hallway. Approaching her from the other end were three
older boys; boys who had a glint of malicious intent in their eyes.Grace
continued up the landing, hoping that they would ignore her if she
kept her head down. As it happened, finding this girl alone was
exactly what they had hoped for, and as the girl drew alongside, the
middle of the three shoved her forcefully into the wall, bringing her
to a standstill. As the three crowded in and looked down at the
frightened girl, the ringleader spoke harshly."Where's
that freaky-eyed boy now, you midget. Your boyfriend can't protect
you now can he?"Grace
was about to scream out into the musty air of this little-used
landing when Adam Black stalked silently up behind the boys and
tapped the middle one on the shoulder."Looking
for me?" he asked, his voice as menacing as a nearly eight year
old could manage."Yeah.
That's right. You're a freak, with those spooky eyes and stupid black
clothes. Its no wonder you've got no friends other than that midget.""Don't
call me a freak," whispered the younger boy. He looked directly
into his aggressors eyes and fixed him with a stare that would have
melted ice. The bullying boy was a few years older than Adam, and
easily eight inches taller, but under the gaze of the black haired
child he faltered slightly, and was unable to hold his gaze for more
than a few moments."Well,
we'll see how tough you are after I give you a pounding," said
the older boy, trying to regain his composure. He took a swing at
Adam, intending on punching him full in the face, but his fist never
came close to the intended target. Moving with the speed and agility
of the panther, Adam's left hand flew up to catch the fist about a
foot in front of his face. The attacking boy was shocked, but had no
time to react as Adam's right hand, infused with the strength of the
wolf, pushed hard into his chest, forcing him back into one of his
bullying friends. The two older boys stumbled and fell back over each
other, finishing in a tangled heap on the ground. The third of the
three bullies caught Adam's eye, but chose to back away, having seen
the surprising strength the younger boy possessed.Adam
grabbed Grace by the hand, and started half-dragging, half-leading
her down the landing and back to their own part of the orphanage. BY
the time the pair reached Grace's bedroom, the girl was back to her
usual effervescent self, singing the praises of her quiet friend, and
thanking him continually for coming to her rescue. As Adam made to
leave her in her room for the night, she quickly gave him a kiss on
the cheek, and thanked him one last time for what he had done. It
was, of course, an innocent action from one friend to another, but
nonetheless it was the first touch of affection that he had ever
received. Returning to his own room, Adam Black lay on his bed to
remember what that moment had felt like; to be touched in such a
gentle and kind way.A
few weeks later, a bright, sunny day dawned. Although he did not know
it, today was the eighth birthday of the boy known as Adam Black. It
was three years since he had been abandoned at the orphanage by his
heartless Uncle, three incredible years in which Adam had, not that
he knew it, become an amazing wizard. His unexplained tattoos of a
snake, a spider, a falcon, a wolf and a panther, which he could call
into existence as creatures to do his bidding, was almost unheard of
in the rest of the wizarding world.Almost.Ginevra
Molly Weasley woke with excitement on the morning of her fifth
birthday. Her parents had promised to buy her a Harry Potter doll
this year, and the little bundle of enthusiasm leapt out of bed and
charged into her parents' room."Mummy!
Daddy! Wake up!""Happy
birthday darling," said the girl's mother, as the child raced
around the bed to wake her father."Wake
up Daddy, it's my birthday!""Hello
Pumpkin. Happy birthday." The Weasley patriarch lifted his
beloved daughter on to the bed with him."Can
I open my presents now?" asked the girl, her eyes shining with
hope as she turned her head to look at her parents in turn."After
breakfast, sweetheart," said her mother. "You know the
rules.""Alright.
I'll go and get dressed. I'm going to wear my favourite green dress!"
With that last statement, the tiny redheaded girl dashed back to her
own room, her excitement still at a seriously elevated state.The
girl tugged off her pyjama top and reached on to the dresser for her
hair brush. Always before dressing she stood in front of her big
mirror and brushed her long hair to get out all the tangles that
develop during the night. Moving to stand in front of the looking
glass, the young child had a surprise. On her bare chest, above her
heart, was the image of a fox. It was a sideways image, and the
animal's head was turned as if looking out away from her body. The
girl instinctively lifted a hand to feel the place where the fox
appeared, but it felt just like normal, soft skin. Then she noticed
another image, this one on her left upper arm, a little way down from
the shoulder. It was a magnificent red and gold bird, with its
beautiful wings outstretched and its head tilted towards the sky.
This was a wizarding house, and Ginevra Molly Weasley was a witch.
She knew at once that this was a picture of a phoenix.Assuming
that the appearance of these two creatures on her chest and arm were
attributable to her twin brothers, she felt it was only fair to get
payback in the only way a five year old girl knows how."Muuuuuuuuum!"
she yelled.The
Weasley family were one of the old 'pureblood' wizarding families,
but unlike most of the others, they were not rich, or prejudiced
against the rest of society, or constantly harping on about the old
ways or traditional wizarding values. They lived in a small wooden
house, near a village called Ottery St. Catchpole, in the county of
Devon, in South West England. Surrounding the Burrow were miles of
countryside, mostly farmland, which sprawled over the gently rolling
hills. To the West, however, was a large wood, so large in fact it
was known locally as 'The Forest of Wolves'. On one edge of the
forest, the village was spread, as apart from a few central shops,
the houses were spread over a few miles. Deep within the forest,
another small wooden house stood. In contrast to the house of the
Weasleys, this one was cold, lonely and haunted. Well, this is what
the occupant wanted the locals to believe, and a few well placed
spells coupled with the monthly sounds that a werewolf makes, even
the magical members of the Ottery St. Catchpole community stayed well
away.The
owner of the dwelling in the forest was, of course, Raymond Smith.
His old white car was parked out the back of the house, packed ready
for a drive to London. It had been three years since he had watched
silently as the five year old Harry Potter had been callously
abandoned at that orphanage. Three years on, all preparations
complete and Ray was ready. Ready to go and get Harry and bring him
back here to live. Looking forward to finally being able to ditch his
made up muggle name, Remus Lupin sat in his kitchen drinking a final
cup of tea.Over
the last few years he had worked on modifying the house so that it
was fit for the cohabitation of an adolescent boy and a werewolf. The
inside of the house was far grander than the outside led one to
believe, with three bedrooms, a lounge, a dining area and a kitchen
and a bathroom. The exterior would have suggested the old wooden
cottage to have little more than two or three rooms at best. Remus
had also constructed an underground cellar, were he could be locked
away safely on transformation nights. Also the cellar contained a
space for brewing potions, specifically the Wolfsbane potion. It had
taken him the best part of eighteen months to perfect this, but he
had been unwilling to have Harry come and stay until this precaution
could be managed.The
final task had been to help his best friend, Sirius Black, escape
from the wizarding prison, Azkaban. After almost eighteen months of
planning, they had finally achieved it, and now Sirius was hiding out
in his late parents' old home in London. Remus was going to go first
to Grimmauld Place to collect him, and then they were both going to
go to the orphanage and get Harry. With one last thought about what
he had achieved, and what was about to come, Remus Lupin set his
empty teacup in the sink, and headed out the back to his trusty car.Thanks
to a few slightly illegal magical enhancements, it was barely an hour
later that Remus Lupin had travelled the near two hundred miles to
London, had successfully collected Sirius Black, and was now parked
outside the regal looking buildings that housed St. Christopher's
Orphanage. Inside this building was Harry Potter, the son of their
best friends, Lily and James. The Boy-Who-Lived. The defeater of the
Dark Lord.So,
at nine o'clock exactly, two smartly dressed men knocked on the door
with the peeling black paint, filled with apprehension mixed with
excitement. They were finally going to get to see him again, the boy
they had held as a baby, whom they had sworn to protect and love
should the worst happen to his parents. This day was to be the first
day of a new chapter, in all of their lives.Adam
Black was waiting patiently for his first class of the day to begin.
Grace was sat beside him, chattering away a usual, and all around
them the other children were ignoring the odd pair, or giving them a
wide berth. The door to the makeshift classroom opened, and the
children expected their usual teacher to stride into the room, but on
this occasion it was Mrs. Rutherford, who was looking for Adam."Adam,"
she said quietly as she made her way across the back of the classroom
to where he was sat. "Will you come with me please? There are
two gentlemen here to see you."Unsure
what this could mean, Adam followed the principal dutifully, his mind
racing as to who these men could be. It could be something to do with
his relatives, the Dursleys, but they his Uncle had clearly suggested
he wanted no more contact with his nephew. A few corridors later,
Harry Potter cam face to face with the two men, who Mrs. Rutherford
introduced as Mr. Smith and Mr. Black. The boy hadn't heard, however,
he was too busy staring at the man he recognised. The brown-eyed man
who used to sit in the white car was here. The man he had always felt
was keeping a watch over him had come."Adam,"
said Mrs. Rutherford. "Adam?"Adam
didn't reply but came out of his thoughts to look at her."These
men would like you to go and live with them. They were friends of
your parents."Typically
when Mrs. Rutherford spoke, Adam didn't reply, and this was no
exception. Instead he turned back to the two men, looking at the
brown-eyed man first. Staring into the man's eyes, Adam willed his
magic to show him the truth; to reveal the emotions of these two men.
As his own green eyes bore deep into the older man's very soul, Adam
could see honesty, a longing to care for the boy, integrity and a
desperate fear that he would not go with them.Turning
to the black-haired man, Adam looked equally hard into his eyes. This
man also wanted to look after the boy, and was truly aggrieved at not
having been able up to now. He also showed signs of excitement and a
new sense of freedom.Under
the boy's piercing gaze, the two men both knew they were being
tested. There was a power lying behind those eyes; eyes as green as
emeralds that were almost hypnotic. Remus let out a sigh of relief as
the boy's stare transferred over to Sirius. Despite the intensity of
the boy's examination, Remus felt sure he had passed it; he only
wanted to care for Harry, after all. However, the fact that as an
eight year old, he already wielded the skill of legilimency was
astonishing. Sirius and he were going to have to have a long talk
about this later.When
Adam had finished his scrutiny of the two wizards, he turned back to
Mrs. Rutherford, and for the first time in many months, spoke to her
of his own volition."Mrs.
Rutherford. The eyes never lie. I should very much like to go and
live with these men.""Are
you sure, Adam?" the again lady enquired. "That was a very
a short time in which to make a decision.""I
am sure. They have only good intentions, I am certain of it.""Very
well. Go to your room and gather your things together. I will go and
find a bag you can use."Adam
nodded briefly at her, flashed a grin and the two men, and
disappeared out of the office door. Once out of sight of the three
adults, he willed himself back to his room, reappearing instantly
beside his bed. Barely five minutes later, Adam had all of his
belongings neatly stacked on his bed; clothes, shoes, toothbrush, and
all the items that appeared unexplainably, but had actually been
conjured out of nothing by the child prodigy. Mrs. Rutherford soon
arrived with a flimsy hold-all that Adam quickly began stuffing with
his clothes, so quickly that he didn't spot Grace hovering in the
doorway.Mrs.
Rutherford instructed Adam to return to the office when he was ready,
before leaving herself to complete some paperwork. As Adam looked up
to see her go, he spotted Grace. Her usually happy face was downcast,
and a few tears had fallen from her eyes."Are
you really leaving, Adam?""Yes.""I'll
miss you.""I'll
miss you too."Grace
ran into the room and gave her friend a fierce hug. Adam had no
choice but to receive it and he patted her awkwardly on the back."Do
you want me to ask if you can come too?"Grace
pulled away from Adam, and held him at arms length, looking at him
appraisingly."No,
I don't think so," she said after a moment's thought. "This
is your new family, not mine. They came for you, not me.""I'll
never forget you, Grace," whispered Adam, quietly. "You
were my first ever friend.""Thank
you, Adam. Go on then. I'll pray for you."Adam
Black took one last look around his bedroom of the last three years.
He'd done so much in here – learnt how to do so many things. He'd
grown strong and fast, and learned how to do magic. This place would
always be special, as would the pretty blonde-haired girl who was
stood there with him, and saying goodbye. The boy known as Adam Black
walked out of the small room, down stairs and across landings until
he reached the front door of St. Christopher's Orphanage.'Yes,'
thought Harry Potter. 'I
was a lost soul. But I'm not anymore.'Getting
into the Remus' white car, Sirius sat in the back with Harry."First
of all, Harry, let me introduce us properly. I am Sirius. Sirius
Black. I'm your Godfather.""And
I, Harry," called Remus from the front seat, "am Remus
Lupin, one of your father's best friends, along with Sirius here.""Okay,"
said Harry. "But why are you calling me Harry? My name is Adam.""Harry
is your real name," explained Sirius. "Mrs. Rutherford told
us that when you arrived at St. Christopher's, she had to give you a
name, and she chose Adam Black.""So
Harry is my real name?""Yes.
Harry Potter. And that's not all, Harry. You're a wizard, and a
damned good one I'll bet.""Yes.
I know."





--------




Chapter
3: In which Harry met Ginny"You
know?" said Sirius, the surprise evident in his voice. "How?
Who told you?""Before
I answer that, will both of you promise to tell me the truth? About
everything?""Of
course," replied Sirius, without any hesitation."Yes,"
called Remus from the front of the car. "But will you do the
same for us?""I
will," answered Harry, quietly."Well
then," said Sirius. "How did you find out that you are a
wizard? I'd bet a hundred galleons that the Dursleys didn't tell
you."At
the mention of the word Dursleys, Harry's previously happy face fell
into a scowl, which Sirius couldn't fail to notice."What
is it Harry? Why the frown?" asked Sirius, concerned that he had
upset his godson."Err,
Padfoot ol' boy," Remus called from the driver's seat. "I
don't think Harry's relatives treated him so well. Best not talk
about them for now.""Alright
Moony," Sirius responded, although his gaze hadn't moved from
the boy beside him."Harry?""My
snake told me.""Your
what?""My
snake." Harry held out his right arm, and much to Sirius Black's
astonishment and alarm, a black snake was coiled around it."Holy
mother of Merlin!" the older man cried. "Is it safe?""Of
course," Harry replied, as he stroked the serpent's head. The
snake turned to look at the black-haired man and its tongue flicked
in and out appraisingly. Tuning into the snake's sense of taste,
Harry knew that Sirius had suddenly become quite nervous, if his
increased sweating was any indication."Thissss
wizzzzard issss unssssure of me.""He'll
get ussssed to you. Jusssst imagine when he sssseesss the panther!""Yessss.
That will be mosssst interessssting.""Ssssleep
now.""Yessss,
young masssster."Throughout
the short exchange, Sirius' alarm at seeing a snake appear on the
young boy's wrist changed to complete shock at hearing the two
hissing at each other. "You're a…a…parselmouth?""Padfoot?
What's going on back there? I heard a load of hissing.""Nothing
exciting, Moons. Just that Harry has a pet snake, to whom he chats in
parseltongue.""WHAT?"
Remus' surprise at his friend's comment resulted in a violent swerve,
as his attention to the road waned momentarily.Harry
held the snake up so Remus could see it in the rear-view mirror.
"Geez, Harry, you're going to be a big bundle of surprises,
aren't you.""I
guess," said the boy.Sirius
spent the remainder of the journey to Devon telling Harry about his
parents, what had happened to them and how. He explained how the one
of their best friends had betrayed them to Voldemort, and how the
Dark Lord had come to the Potter's home in Godric's Hollow, killing
James and Lily, and trying to kill baby Harry too. Sirius' tale
lasted the entire journey, and several hours afterwards as well. By
the evening of Harry's eighth birthday, he knew about the wizarding
world, about Voldemort, his own notoriety and about the prophecy.The
prophecy that had precipitated Voldemort's attack on the Potters had
been made by a seer whose divination skills were widely recognised as
debatable. Albus Dumbledore, headmaster of Hogwarts as well as plenty
of other things, believed in it, however, and that had been a good
enough endorsement for the Potters to take it seriously. Unbeknownst
to Dumbledore, James Potter had confided in his best friend, Sirius
Black, and Sirius wasn't about to keep the truth hidden from the boy.In
essence, the prophecy told that the Dark Lord would mark a child as
his equal, and in the end, the child and he would fight to the death,
but the child would have a hidden power that the Dark Lord didn't
know about. Fortunately for Harry, the wizard known as Lord Voldemort
was currently a disembodied spirit, drifting through forests in
Eastern Europe. Much of the world believed Voldemort to be dead, but
now Harry knew of his enemy, he could sense, in the back of his mind
that the Dark Lord was still out there, somewhere, biding his time,
planning his return.Thanks
to a large slice of magical embellishment, Remus' white Ford Sierra
managed the four hour drive from St. Christopher's to Devon in a
little over two, resulting in the party of three arriving just in
time four lunch. As Sirius continued telling his stories of the
wizarding world, Remus disappeared into the kitchen of the home they
would all now share and returned forthwith laden with sandwiches and
drinks. After the absorbing tale of his own past was finished, Harry
started to take in his surroundings.Nestled
in between the twin villages of Ottery St Catchpole and Ottery St
Mary was a dense forest, largely believed by the muggle inhabitants
of the surrounding homes to be haunted. The epicentre of any spectral
activity was believed to be an apparently derelict wooden cabin that
was hidden away in the centre of the wood. The howling and wailing
that emanated from the dwelling during nights of the full moon did
plenty to maintain its reputation, exactly as the owner occupier
hoped it would. Remus Lupin, being a werewolf, didn't really want
oblivious muggles wandering around his home, especially on those
nights. Over the last few years, Remus had been working exceptionally
hard to protect the cabin with numerous wards, muggle-repelling
charms, glamour wards and the like. The cabin was unplottable, and
now under a Fidelius charm; its location was known only by Remus
himself, Sirius, and now Harry.Inside,
the wooden structure bore little resemblance to the outside, from
where it looked big enough to have maybe two or three rooms at most,
which amazed little Harry. Thanks to some creative architecture of
the special wizarding kind, the cabin actually boasted three
bedrooms, a lounge diner, a kitchen, library and a bathroom. In the
cellar, which Remus had had excavated, he had placed a training room
and what looked to Harry like a prison cell. When Harry pointed this
out during the trio's tour around the house, Remus took the moment to
explain that he was Werewolf, and all that it entailed. Soaking up
all the information his two adult guardians could impart on the
subject, Harry immediately insisted that they should learn to brew
the Wolfsbane potion for themselves.Finally,
it became time for Harry to tell Remus and Sirius about himself,
about the Dursleys, the tattoos, the five creatures, about magic and
what he had already learned to do with it. Starting at the beginning,
Harry described his life at the heavy hands of his relatives back in
Privet Drive. It had been a long time since he had thought of this,
let alone talked about it. He had told his friend Grace a little of
his 'family', and had found it helped to share things. Consequently,
he made good on his promise, and told the two wizards everything.To
say they were shocked to hear of the treatment of a small child was
an understatement, but it was soon glossed over when Harry got round
to telling of his five tattoos, that suddenly appeared during the
night before his fifth birthday. As he pulled up the right sleeve of
his black top, to reveal the snake image on his wrist, Remus'
reaction was stunned amazement. Sirius' in contrast was a more
animated "Awesome!"It
was Remus who noticed the similarity between the snake tattoo on
Harry's wrist and actual serpent that was coiled around it in the
car. Almost immediately had this thought finished forming in his
mind, then another came – where was that snake now?"Harry?
What happened to the snake you had earlier?""It's
right here," the young boy replied, holding up his right arm."Sorry
kiddo," interjected Sirius. "You're going to have to
explain that a bit more clearly for us old dogs to understand."Harry
didn't reply to his Godfather, but smiled a mischievous smile and
fired off a twinkle in one of his green eyes. With a silent thought
from Harry, the snake had formed out of the tattoo onto his wrist,
and began looking around, flicking its tongue towards the two
wizards."Awesome!"
cried Sirius, for a second time."Wow,
Harry, that's incredible," began Remus. "I've never heard
of this before. I think it would be best if this was kept between us.
I mean, I'll do some reading and see what I can find. Oh my.""Well
Harry, it seems you've stunned poor Moony into research mode. Every
time something comes up he's never seen or heard about before, he
hits the books.""Should
I not show you the other four then?""What?"
asked Sirius."E…E…Excuse
me?" stammered Remus.Slowly,
Harry pulled his top over his head, revealing the falcon on his left
arm, the spider on his neck, the wolf on his chest and the
magnificent panther on his back. Letting the enormity of the tattoos
sink in, Harry waited a few moments before he summoned out the four
remaining creatures. In barely a second, a falcon flew out of the
open cabin window and out into the forest. The panther and wolf were
both sniffing their way around the two older wizards, looking for any
signs of a threat, and the spider stepped lightly down Harry's arm
and came to rest in his left hand.It
was a several minutes before either of the two ex-marauders managed
to utter anything coherent, when Sirius finally managed to get out a
third "Awesome!" Eventually, Remus also found his voice."Well,
young Harry. When you said you were going to tell us about yourself,
I was not expecting that."Harry
shrugged and absentmindedly played with the spider for a few moments
before sending it back to the web on his neck. As Harry pulled his
top back on, Sirius asked him a question, his voice mischievous."So,
kiddo. What else can you do?"Over
the following days, Harry showed his two new guardians what he could
do already with his control of magic. The two wizards were
continually astounded when this eight year old performed feat after
feat of wandless, silent magic. It couldn't even be described as
spell casting, because there were no spells, or wand movements. There
was just intent, plain and simple. Remus tried learning how to
control his magic like Harry could, but found that he was too long in
the tooth to change. Spell casting with a wand was just too
instinctive for the werewolf. Sirius, sensing hard work, declined to
even try, happy in the knowledge that his Godson was awesome.In
the following weeks, months and years, the three wizards settled into
a comfortable routine of learning and playing. Harry decided quite
quickly that he would prefer to stay as Adam Black. Partly because he
had gotten used to it, but also because it gave him a sense of
kinship with his Godfather.With
a few well placed glamour charms, Sirius and Harry were able to visit
Gringotts Bank in Diagon Alley. The goblins knew who they really were
of course, but cared very little. The fact that two heirs of two rich
and important families were in their halls was good enough for the
Goblins. Sirius gave 'Adam Black' access to the Black family vault;
in case he was unable to attend himself, and gave access to Remus to
withdraw Galleons, even though he could not physically enter the
vault itself. Finances taken care of, Sirius and Adam took the
opportunity to look at the Potters' will, which had been left
unopened to this very day, due to none of the named beneficiaries
being unable to attend.Harry,
was the only named beneficiary, of course, and as he had been hidden
away by Dumbledore, his parents' will remained locked away in the
files of the Goblins. Apart from the Potter family money, which Harry
would get control of when he became seventeen and a trust vault he
could access from age eleven, there was little detail in the
document. Perhaps the only interesting point was a stipulation that
Harry should not be sent to live with the Dursleys, under any
circumstances.Sirius
and Remus spent most of their time teaching Adam, as they called him
now anything and everything they could think of. Adam was amazed at
the range of things magic could be used for; his childish imagination
had not stretched to 'duelling' or attacking and defending. So, Adam
soaked everything up like a sponge. When he was not in the basement
training area with one of the adults, he would be tucked away
somewhere reading one of the many books that Remus kept him endlessly
supplied with.The
only other activity that Adam engaged in, apart from basic physical
needs like eating and sleeping and washing, was walking in the forest
with his wolf and panther at his side. Perhaps due to his intimacy
with his own animals, Adam seemed to have a mysterious rapport with
the creatures of the woodland. Despite the presence of the lupine and
feline, rabbits, birds and all creatures seemed comfortable when he
was near, and many even approached him, sensing somehow that he was a
child of nature. In time, Adam Black came to spend a third of his
waking hours in the forest; it seemed like such a natural environment
for the boy. He was always careful to remain hidden from anyone else
who walked through the trees. A few of the local villagers took a
path through the woods, and occasionally people rambled through in
recreation. There was only one person to which he had ever shown
himself, a girl similar to his own age, with dirty blonde hair. She
had been trying to help a baby bird that had fallen from its nest,
and with Adam's help, they had caught it and she had taken it home
rear it by hand.As
the years rumbled on, Adam Black continued to grow in strength and
sensory ability. In agreement with his guardians, he decided that he
did not want to go to Hogwarts when he became eleven, not that a
delivery owl was able to find the house anyway, with the numerous
layers of protection and privacy that had been placed upon it.
Eventually Remus agreed that Adam was best staying out of the
public's eye. Even remaining in his guise as Adam Black, relation of
the Black family he would be the centre of attention due to his
incredible abilities. Maybe sometime in the future he would go, but
at age eleven, he would not. There were too many concerns over a
certain headmaster, and his motives, that eleven year old Adam was
not ready for.The
calmness with which this decision was made by three happy and
contented wizards was certainly not shared by two others, many
hundreds of miles away in a castle in Scotland."It's
been two weeks Albus," said Minerva McGonagall. "Every
other reply was received within two days. Surely we should do
something.""Yes,
Minerva, I do believe the time has come to take action. I will go
myself to Harry's home, and see if I can discover the answers that we
seek.""Very
well, Albus. I'll be in my office, starting on timetables."As
his deputy headmistress strode out of the circular office, the
ancient wizard turned to his phoenix familiar. "I'll be back
shortly, my friend, hopefully with good news." The phoenix
trilled a response of encouragement, as Albus Dumbledore flooed away.Professor
McGonagall was deep in concentration, puzzling over timetabling and
other such administrative tasks when the headmaster appeared in her
office doorway. At once she noticed his demeanour; it was lacking its
usual joviality, and the twinkle in his blue eyes was missing."What
is it, Albus? Is the boy alright?"Feeling
every one of his hundred and fifty something years, Albus Dumbledore
moved into the Gryffindor Head of House's office and sat down in one
of the chairs in front of the desk."It
would appear, Minerva, that I made a grave mistake, leaving Harry in
the care of his family.""Whatever
do you mean, Albus? Where is the boy? Is he coming?""Harry's
Aunt and Uncle despised him, and treated him extremely badly. When I
arrived, they were so irate at having 'one of those unnatural freaks'
in their house that their memories of Harry raced through their minds
so viciously, I barely needed to use Legilimency at all to know what
they were thinking. Although I could not discern what transpired,
something happened on Harry's fifth birthday, causing Vernon Dursley
to take his nephew to London and abandon him at an orphanage. The
Dursleys haven't seen nor heard of him in six years.""What
about Arabella Figg? Hadn't you asked her to keep an eye on the
Potter boy?""Another
of my mistakes, it would appear, in that I assumed no news was good
news. Sadly Arabella succumbed to an illness which left her blind and
with dementia. She had no family, and as such no-one looked after her
in her declining years. She passed away several years ago, Minerva,
and I believe it is my fault.""What
are we going to do, Albus? We must find him?""Yes
of course Minerva, we must. I have noted down the approximate
location of the orphanage. Would you please see what you can find? I
rather feel the need to go and rest, and contemplate the hideous
errors of judgement I have made."Sensing
his companion's need for some spiritual healing, Fawkes appeared in
Professor McGonagall's office and landed on the elderly old
headmaster's shoulder. Trilling a calming greeting to his master, the
flaming bird grabbed hold of Dumbledore's robes with his talons, and
in a flash of flames they were gone, leaving a shell-shocked Minerva
McGonagall alone in her office once more.Several
days passed before the stern Transfiguration teacher returned to the
round office of her friend. His usual calm demeanour had returned and
his expressions were as characterful as normal, although the famous
twinkle had yet to reappear in his eyes. Minerva noticed the silvery
white glow coming from the old stone basin in the cupboard behind the
headmaster's desk. There could be no doubt which memories he had
placed in his pensieve."I
hope you bring good news, Minerva. I fear we could both use a morale
boost.""I'm
afraid not, Albus," responded McGonagall. "I managed to
trace the orphanage. There was only ever one in that area of London.""Was?""Yes.
St. Christopher's Orphanage closed a little over a year ago.""Did
you find out why? What happened to the children, or their records?""I
found out a little from newspaper archives in the local muggle
library. There was an accident; a bad one. One that sounds a lot like
accidental magic on a very grand scale.""What
happened?""There
was an explosion, which in turn caused the building to catch fire.
All the records in the office were destroyed, and…" The usual
unflappable teacher faltered for a moment. "And five children
were killed."Neither
of the two aging educators noticed the strange beetle land on the
open window ledge, part way through their conversation. Similarly,
neither saw when it nearly fell off the ledge in shock, before
recovering enough to fly away again.The
unusual family of three wizards enjoyed a quiet eleventh birthday for
their youngest member. The hazy sunshine that filtered through the
trees of the forest kept them warm throughout August, and all too
soon 1st
September came round. Across the country, several hundred magical
school children were preparing to start a new year of wizarding
education at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. In the
Lupin, Black and Black household, emotions were running high for an
entirely different reason. The Daily Prophet had arrived.Boy-Who-Lived
feared deadBy
Rita SkeeterFollowing
his sensational defeat of He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named at the age of
fifteen months, it seems that the infant Harry Potter ended up
sequestered in a Muggle orphanage. Earlier in the summer, this
intrepid reporter discovered that the orphanage in question was
destroyed in an explosion, killing many of the occupants…"So,
Adam," said Sirius cheerfully, after the shock had worn down a
little. "Apparently you're dead.""This
will make going out in public simpler, I suppose…" Remus
mumbled to himself."We
need to find out about Grace," stated Harry, ignoring them both.Later
that day, Remus headed to London to see if he could find out anything
about Harry's friend Grace, while Sirius went down into the basement
to tend to the current batch of Wolfsbane potion that was simmering
away. Harry made his regular trip into the village of Ottery St.
Catchpole, to get supplies for their trio's dinner, and for breakfast
and lunch the next day. Several days later, Remus reported back that
he had been unable to find any information regarding Harry's first
ever friend.Generally,
Harry allowed all of his creatures to be 'out' as much as possible,
even if that meant leaving them somewhere as he went somewhere else.
Any of them could be summoned back to him with a thought, and they
would reappear as tattoos on his body, no matter how far away they
had been, from where they could re-emerge at Harry's side in an
instant. As usual for the walk through the trees into the village,
and indeed all of his forays into the forest, the wolf trotted
amiably at his master's side. This had turned a few heads in the
village, but after three years, most of the villagers had grown
accustomed to seeing the strange black haired boy, who was always
dressed head to toe in black clothes, with a large black dog at his
side. Occasionally on his trips into the village, Harry saw members
of a family of red-headed people; mostly boys with their mother,
although there was one girl too he noted. This family, Harry could
tell, were a magical family, one of a couple in the region, so Remus
had told him at some point.The
years continued to pass and the three wizards became closer as their
policy of only ever telling the whole truth to each other helped to
forge a bond of absolute trust. Remus and Sirius explained to Harry,
although they still called him Adam, why Remus had not been able to
stop Sirius being sent to Azkaban, despite knowing the truth about
Peter being the secret-keeper. One wintry evening, at Harry's
prompting, Remus explained to Harry all about those terrible days,
when Voldemort's act of terrorism were indiscriminate, nobody knew
who to trust, and the lawmen like Bartemius Crouch were under
terrible pressure to 'get results'. Had Remus come forward with the
information that Peter was secret keeper instead of Sirius, Remus
felt certain that he would have been carted off to Azkaban as well,
for being in league with Sirius Black the crazed mass-murderer, and
trying to get him freed with some half-baked nonsense that could not
be disputed by Peter Pettigrew, as he had been brutally slain as
well. No, with Dumbledore firmly of the belief that Sirius was the
betrayer, there was nothing to be gained by Remus coming forward with
the truth.This
explanation led to explanation of how the two marauders had managed
to spring Sirius from Azkaban, the most horrendous place in wizarding
Britain, and believed to be impossible to escape from.After
Remus had watched in horror as Vernon Dursley dropped a terrified
five year old Harry at the orphanage in London, he had vowed to do
whatever was necessary to rescue Harry and look after him. He already
owned the cottage in the woods in Devon, but it was nowhere near safe
enough, or a suitable place to bring up a child. Remus quickly
realised that he needed help, and there was only one person he could
trust. Sirius.With
some help from Dumbledore, Remus was granted permission to go and
visit Sirius in Azkaban, where the two marauders were able to make a
plan. Thankfully, Sirius had managed to minimise the effects of the
dreaded Dementors by spending much of his time as Padfoot, his black
dog animagus form. After Moony's visit, Sirius' resolve was
strengthened further. He clung to two thoughts; that he had been
wrongly imprisoned and that Harry was in need of his help. Neither
thought was a happy one, and this is why the Dementors left him alone
to a large extent. With no happy memories to feed on, Sirius was of
no interest to the creatures of death. After almost three years of
eating just enough to stay alive, Padfoot was thin enough to squeeze
through the bars of his cage, out past the patrolling Dementors and
swim across the sea to the mainland, and freedom. As pre-arranged
Remus was on hand to take Sirius to London, and stash him away inside
the now empty, Black family home, number 12 Grimmauld Place.Thanks
to the legendary discretion of the Gringotts Goblins, Sirius was able
to finance the development and improved warding of Remus' little
cottage in the woods. His small fortune also meant that they could
afford to live without either of them having to work, and that they
were now ready to go and find Harry.Over
the next few years, Harry, perpetually disguised as Adam Black,
continued to read, practice magic, roam the forest and live
contentedly with his two older guardians. On his fourteenth birthday,
Remus took Harry into the Ministry of Magic with the purpose of
hearing the prophecy that had been made about him. Harry had been
having strange dreams which he described to Remus and Sirius, and
surprisingly it had been Sirius who recognised the Hall of Prophecy
from Harry's description. It was perfectly allowed for someone
mentioned in a prophecy to go and visit it, within the Department of
Ministries, so long as an appointment was made in advance. Visiting a
prophecy was considered to be an extremely private matter, similar to
opening a safety deposit box in a posh Swiss bank in the Muggle
world. Despite making an appointment under the name Adam Black, Harry
was able to discretely lift down the dusty glass sphere that was
indicated his real initials.Following
the instructions of the Unspeakable who had accompanied Harry and
Remus, but who was now waiting at the entrance to the great chamber,
Harry invoked the smoky image of Sybil Trelawney, which spoke the
damning words that condemned Harry to life as an orphan. Although
Harry knew of the prophecy, he was not prepared for the harsh reality
that struck him like a hammer blow – it was his destiny to kill or
be killed by the despicable Dark Lord, an evil being whom Harry knew
in his gut would be back some day, looking for vengeance against the
boy who defied him.Perhaps
it was not a bad thing that the fragile glass ball slipped from the
stunned boy's fingers and smashed on the cold stone floor. The sudden
noise of breaking glass cut through the silence of the massive hall
and startled Harry out of the stupor into which he had slipped.
Remus, who had remained quiet throughout the entire experience, took
his young charge by the arm."Come
Harry. We should get out of here."Finding
solace in the cool and quiet of the woodland around the cottage,
Harry spent many of the following days roaming amongst the trees, his
wolf and panther faithfully trotting at his side, ready to disappear
at a moment's notice. On one of these days he came across the girl
with dirty blonde hair, who was sitting in a small clearing. The sun
was shining down upon her through a gap in the leafy canopy, and she
was inexplicably waving her arms at the sunbeams, as if trying to
catch them.Curiosity
drew Harry towards the girl, and he soon engaged her in conversation.
She was named Luna, he learned, and although she went to Hogwarts
School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, it was the summer holiday, so she
was back living with her father in Ottery St. Mary, the village on
the other side of the small forest to Ottery St. Catchpole. The two
young teens chatted amiably for several hours; Luna's carefree
attitude to life washing soothingly over Harry's troubled mind
leaving him refreshed and his spirit uplifted. There was no use
worrying about Voldemort yet, was there? The pair came across each
other a couple more times during that summer, but soon Luna returned
to Hogwarts, Summer turned to Autumn and time rumbled ever onward.During
the summer of Harry's fifteenth birthday, he came into contact with a
few more of Hogwart's finest. One afternoon, when Harry was making a
trip to the village shop, he saw four of the redheads on the other
side of the lane, a short distance ahead. The girl was there, Harry
noticed. She was fairly short and slender, with beautiful long deep
red hair flowing like a curtain of silk down her back. She was
wearing a white summer dress, which reached to just above her knees.
Accompanying her were the youngest boy, who also looked to be about
Harry's age, and the twin boys who were a little older. As they
walked up the lane towards the shop, Harry noticed the boys look back
at him a few times, leaving Harry at a heightened level of alert.As
the girl disappeared into the shop, the three red haired boys waited
outside, watching Harry as he approached. As the black-haired teen
and his wolf stepped off the road onto the shop's forecourt the
youngest red-head stepped towards him menacingly."Oi!
Wolf-Boy. I want a word with you."Harry
stopped to face the slightly taller boy, but was not overly
concerned. The wolf at his side growled quietly, but his aggressor
stood his ground as he was buoyed by the presence of his twin
brothers behind him. Harry did not respond, but stared up into the
red-head's eyes."I…err..."
the boy stumbled under the gaze of the strange boy with the big black
dog. "We…err…saw you looking at our sister…"Harry
continued his silent, impassive response."…And
we don't approve. In fact, we're going to teach you some respect."
The red-head had started to regain his confidence, so much so he had
barely finished his sentence when he lashed out with a poorly aimed
punch at Harry's head. Harry of course, easily caught the flying fist
with his left hand, thanks to his animalistic reflexes. In an
instant, the attacking youth was spun about and shoved forcefully
back towards the wall of the shop, which he struck fully face-on,
causing his nose to break. Harry looked sternly towards the twins,
almost willing them to try something, but they saw sense at went
instead to help their stricken brother who now had blood pouring down
his face and chin. Still without a word, Harry shook his head at the
three other boys and disappeared into the shop, barely registering
the pretty red-headed girl who was just paying for her shopping and
came out a moment later.That
confrontation with the youngest Weasley boy occurred towards the
beginning of July. It was a few weeks later when Harry's path crossed
the red-headed and hot-headed family again.The
youngest member of the Weasley family, Ginevra Molly Weasley had
spent the day visiting her friend Luna Lovegood, who lived in the
village on the other side of the haunted forest. She could have taken
the floo home to the Burrow, but instead decided to enjoy the cool
summer evening and walk back along the forest trail. The main path
through the forest took the walker from St. Mary to St. Catchpole,
almost in a straight line through the woodland, but with a small kink
in the deepest part of the wood to avoid a strange, wooden cottage.
With the last of the summer sunlight fading rapidly, it was darker
under the trees than thirteen year old Ginny expected, and she found
herself hurrying past the old wooden house as her heart beat quickly
in her chest.The
path was difficult to follow as the last remnants of sunlight
disappeared, but the young witch dare not use her wand to light her
way, due to the restriction on underage sorcery. With her senses
alert, Ginny was suddenly aware of other things in the wood. Birds,
of course. Animals as well most likely. People? Suddenly, a noise
behind Ginny made her spin round in alarm, but there was nothing to
see except shadows and dark shapes. She turned back to run on down
the thoroughfare, but having strayed slightly from the beaten track,
Ginny caught her left foot in some twisted roots or vines, and fell
sharply to the ground, her ankle twisting painfully and breaking with
a snap. The young teen could not help but cry out in anguish, causing
all the birds around her to fly up out of their roosts in surprise.
Moments later, the trees were silent once more, and Ginny sobbed in
pain and frustration as her stricken foot refused to come loose of
its bindings.Without
warning, the hair on the back of Ginny's neck began to stand on end
and she sensed something approach. Silently, a dark shape approached
from the trees to her left. It was low to the ground, not a person,
perhaps a dog.As
the great black dog padded noiselessly across the woodland floor,
poor Ginny Weasley became petrified with fear. The adrenalin masked
the pain from her injured ankle as the reality of staring a large,
unfamiliar animal in the face took precedence in her mind. With her
gaze fixed on the beast that stood barely inches from her left side,
she did not notice the second being that approached equally silently
from her other side, until the dog shifted its gaze to its
approaching master. Ginny Weasley shrieked as she saw the person loom
above her out of the darkness, until her involuntary jump caused her
ankle to jar, and pain to shoot up her leg.Looking
the girl up and down, the person slowly drew a hunting knife from the
folds of his black coat; its highly polished blade catching the
reflection of the canine's bright green eyes. Summoning the last
vestiges of her Gryffindor spirit, Ginny Weasley managed to whisper
out a defiant warning."Don't
you touch me….I'm a w….I've got a wan…"As
she spoke her hands felt the pockets of her jeans for her wand. Her
voice trailed off as she realised the horrific truth; her wand was
missing."Looking
for this?" The person's voice was softer, and younger than she
had expected. As he spoke, he held up Ginny's wand, which she could
barely make out in the worsening darkness."Give
me that," Ginny ground out through gritted teeth."Actually,
I think not. If you are as impetuous as your brother is, you'll
probably curse me before I can help to sort out your foot.""My
brother? How do you…" Suddenly enlightenment struck the fallen
girl. "You're the guy that attacked Ron." Harry was about
to respond, when Ginny suddenly added more questions. "You knew
this was a wand didn't you? And you know about curses. Are you a
wizard? Did you say you were going to help me?"As
she paused for breath, Harry jumped in to the conversation."Yes,
I am going to help you. Yes, I knew it was a wand and yes, I am a
wizard. As for your brother…It sounds to me like you didn't get the
full story." Harry moved and knelt down by Ginny's feet. As he
looked at the twisting roots that had snared the girl's ankle, she
carried on asking questions."So
what did happen then, if you didn't attack him? And who are you
anyway? And how are you going to…" She trailed off as Harry
lifted the knife once more, and held her breath. The blade suddenly
sliced down through the air and swept neatly through the roots that
held Ginny's broken ankle in place."Ahhhhhhh!"
she cried as the broken bones suddenly became free to move. Harry
instantly placed his hands on the damaged joint, and a white glow
began to emanate from them, engulfing Ginny's foot and ankle. After a
moment, the pain began to subside, and seeing the relief on his
patient's face, Harry proceeded to answer her last battery of
questions, all the while keeping up the healing glow."Your
brother took affront at my glancing in your direction as you walked
along the lane ahead of me, and decided to defend your honour.
Unfortunately for him, my instinctive defensive action led him to be
shoved into the shop wall, causing some damage to his face, I
believe. As far as I'm aware, your brothers generally refer to me as
Wolf-boy. However, I prefer the name Shadow. Much more mysterious,
don't you think." In fact, this was the marauder name he had
been given by Remus and Sirius, thanks to his penchant for all things
black, along with his uncanny ability for hiding unseen in the
shadows of the woods. "And, in answer to your third question,
I'm using the knife to cut your foot free, although I think you
already figured that out.""My
brother really is an…" began Ginny, but Harry cut her off
mid-flow."Shhh.
I need to concentrate."As
Harry continued to tend to the girl's broken ankle, he took the
opportunity to have a good look at her. Even in the darkness of the
woodland night, his enhanced vision allowed him to see fairly well.
The girl was smaller than he was, by a fair margin, and clearly
younger too, but she was extremely pretty, with her long red hair and
pale skin. She lay back on the soft forest floor with her eyes
closed, revelling in the relief that this strange boy's lowing hands
were bringing to her infured ankle. Opening her eyes once more, she
found the boy's big black dog sniffing relentlessly at her chest."Um,
Shadow?""What?""I
know my brothers call you 'Wolf-boy', but this isn't really a wolf,
is it? And why is it sniffing me quite so vehemently?""Yes,
it is a wolf, and he can smell your fox.""What
did you?…how did?…huh?" Ginny was staggered by the boy's
words and was unable to form the questions that were racing through
her mind. How could he know about the tattoo that still remained in
place on her chest? Did it really have a smell? When it had been
established that the twins really hadn't been involved in the
appearance of the fox and phoenix images on five year old Ginny's
chest and arm, her parents had taken her to St. Mungo's, who had been
baffled by the images, and completely unable to remove them. No-one
outside the Weasley family had ever been told of their existence."How
can it smell a tattoo?" Ginny asked incredulously."Tattoos.""What?""Tattoos.
There's a firebird on your arm too, isn't there?""How
did you…?" Again the girl's question trailed away, as she
looked at the Shadowy boy in front of her. Suddenly, Harry stood."I've
done all I can for your ankle. You'd best stay off it for a few days,
for it will be stiff and sore, but I've mended the bones. I'll carry
you back to your house.""OK!"
Ginny's mind was still reeling from this person's casual mention of
her long kept secret to object to this complete stranger offering to
carry her the two miles back to the Burrow. She barely noticed as he
easily lifted her up into his arms, and started off through the
forest. Harry refused to be drawn into answering questions about
himself, or how he knew about the fox and the phoenix, but he spoke
enough to find out the way to the Burrow and reveal that he knew the
forest well enough to wander around in the dark.Half
way through the journey, which took around an hour, Ginny fell asleep
in Harry's arms, as the adrenalin from the accident drained from her
body, leaving her exhausted. Harry was pleased to walk on in silence,
effortlessly carrying the sweet girl back to her family. As the pair
neared the Burrow, Harry's falcon, which was flying high above the
tops of the trees, saw a man and a boy emerge from a strange looking
wooden house, and Harry assumed this was the girl's father. The boy
he recognised as his erstwhile assailant, Ron.Waking
up the sleeping girl, Harry spoke softly to her. "Hey, we're
nearly there. Your father is nearby."Ginny's
tired eyes opened as she comprehended her saviour's words. Barely a
moment later, he stepped out of the trees into an open expanse of
land, the farside of which stood a rickety wooden house. Striding
across the meadow towards them came a tall, balding man and the
gangly form of a quickly growing teenage boy."Dad?"
called Ginny from her prone position in Harry's arms."Ginny!"
shouted back Arthur Weasley, the relief evident in his voice. The two
pairs came together about two hundred metres from the wooden house,
and a tense moment passed as the Weasley patriach regarded the young
man who carried his daughter in his arms."You?"
hissed Ron, suddenly, as he realised why he recognised the youth
opposite him."Shut
up Ron, you big drama queen!" snapped Ginny. "Dad, this is
Shadow. I fell in the woods on my way back from Luna's house and hurt
my ankle pretty badly. He found me and helped me and fixed my ankle
up. He's a wizard, Dad.""Actually
sir," Harry added. Your daughter's ankle was badly broken. I've
healed it as best I can…" "And
then he's carried me for the last two miles.""Well
then," spoke Arthur. "It looks like I owe you a debt of
gratitude.""Dad,
no!" cried Ron. "This is the thug who…""Who
you took a swing at and came off worst?" interjected Ginny, who
was still languishing in Harry's strong arms. "You attacked him
and you know it.""Is
this true Ron?" Arthur asked his son, sternly."Well,
maybe it was more like that than I remembered.""Well
then, young man," continued Arthur. "I suggest you owe Mr.
Shadow an apology.""It's
just Shadow, sir. And that's really not necessary. Protecting your
family's honour is no crime," Harry protested."Maybe
not, Shadow. But throwing a punch at a stranger is unacceptable
behaviour. Ron?""Sorry,"
the teen mumbled, and he thrust his hands into his coat pockets, only
to bring one of them out sharply. "Aaarrgghhh!""What's
the matter now, son?""Scabbers
bit me, the little rat."Ron
proceeded to reach back into his coat pocket, but more carefully this
time, and he pulled out a rat, which he clutched to his chest. "Bad
Scabbers," the boy admonished. Harry eyes were drawn to the rat
in front of him. In the light of the moon, Harry's hawk-like eyesight
honed in on the rodent's front paws."Ron,"
spoke Harry, suddenly. "Perhaps you should take your sister into
the house now. I would like to talk to your father in private.""Yeah,
whatever. Give the little munchkin here then," responded Ron
reluctantly, as he returned the rat to his coat pocket.As
Harry gently passed the girl in his arms over to her youngest
brother, he whispered softly in her ear."Farewell,
Ginny. I've a feeling we shall meet again, and we shall talk about
your fox.""Thankyou!"
she whispered in return.As
the two siblings headed back towards the warmth of their cosy little
house, Harry's gaze turned stony as he looked up into the tired face
of Arthur Weasley."Sir,
please listen to me very carefully.""What
is it, Shadow?""Your
son's pet, Scabbers. That's no rat. It's an animagus called Peter
Pettigrew."





--------




Well, here is the fourth chapter. I'd like to say a huge thankyou to Starry Night Blue who helps to make my story so much better than it would otherwise be.Chapter 4: In which there are surprises for everyoneHarry's fifteenth birthday came and went, and the hot summer days passed. Finally, during the middle of August, came the gift that Harry had been waiting for. It was a gift not just for himself, but for Remus too, to a small extent and for Sirius especially. It was delivered in the form of the Daily Prophet. On that momentous day, Harry was awoken by the sound of his Godfather screaming."AAAAAARRRRGGGGHHHH! MOOOOOOOONY? ADAM? GET DOWN HERE NOOOOOOOOW!"Harry was awake in an instant. There was only one thing this could mean; Arthur Weasley had come through on his end of the deal. Arriving downstairs a short while later, Harry found a delirious Sirius and a stunned Remus. Both were sitting at the kitchen table, Sirius sporting the biggest smile it was physically possible to portray, while his best friend shook his head and muttered to himself. Harry stopped in the doorway and grinned at the pair."I see the paper arrived!"Sirius turned to look at his Godson, and noticed the smug look on the boy's face."Did you know about this?""I may have had a slight involvement." Harry paused for a moment. "Surprise!" he added, lamely."I can't believe you knew and didn't tell me. Oh what the hell, I don't care. I'm going to be freeeeeeeeeeeeeee."Harry moved over to the table and looked down at the newspaper that lay between the two men.SIRIUS BLACK INNOCENT – REAL BETRAYER OF POTTERS FOUNDBy Rita SkeeterIn a sensational development that will shock Wizarding Britain, it was discovered late last night that Sirius Black, long believed to be a mass-murderer and betrayer of the late James and Lily Potter to He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named was completely innocent and framed by his one time friend Peter Pettigrew.At around 10pm, Arthur Weasley, Head of the Misuse of Muggle Artefacts Office at the Ministry of Magic accompanied youngest son Ronald (15) to the DMLE. In what appeared to be an arranged meeting, the Weasleys met with Madam Bones, Auror Kingsley Shacklebolt and the Minister himself. The Daily Prophet had also been invited to have a reporter on hand at the Ministry.Explaining to the assembled group, Arthur Weasley said "My son Ron had expressed an interest in becoming an animagus when he was older, so he had been reading up about it. In the course of his research, he realised that his pet rat was behaving strangely for a simple animal, and that it had lived an incredibly long time for a rat. He asked me to perform the spell that would revert an animagus to his or her human self, just so he could know if these oddities were real or imagined."To my extreme surprise and horror, the rat began to turn into a man. Not knowing who this was going to be I stunned the man. When the transformation was complete, I recognised the man as Peter Pettigrew, from when all those pictures were in the papers around the time the You-Know-Who was defeated by Harry Potter."At this point I contacted my Ministry colleague Auror Shacklebolt and we agreed on this course of action."During the course of the interrogation by Auror Shacklebolt and Madam Bones, Arthur Weasley also insisted on his right to question the man who had been hiding out in his home for well over a decade. Reading questions from a written list, Weasley forced Pettigrew, who was under veritaserum, to admit that he had been the Potters' secret-keeper, not Black, and that he had betrayed them to the Dark Lord.Later that same night, Pettigrew caused the explosion that killed thirteen muggles, before cutting off his own finger and disappearing in order to frame Black. As Pettigrew was taken away by Aurors, the Minister of Magic commended both Arthur and Ronald Weasley for their civic duty, and hinted that a reward would be given for the capture of a dangerous criminal. Both the Minister and Madam Bones also agreed that Sirius Black, whose whereabouts are currently unknown following his escape from Azkaban seven years ago, would receive a full acquittal, an apology and reparation for his unjust incarceration.For further details turn to pages 2, 3, 4, 5, 7 and 10.A few days later, the Prophet printed the story that Sirius Black had been proclaimed innocent of all charges by the Ministry of Magic, and that the demeanour of escaping from prison had been overlooked as part of the compensation for wrongful imprisonment in the first place. Peter Pettigrew had also been tried before the Wizengamot in those few days and had been sentenced to life in Azkaban.Ron Weasley was never going to be academically outstanding, and apart from occasional emotional outbursts, he was generally a logical and intelligent person. In the days following the Scabbers saga, Ron spent many hours thinking about what had happened. At first he was angry at himself for not realising the rat was really a person. Anger gave way to disgust at the thought that he'd held the rat in his arms, caressed and stroked it. Finally irrational emotions gave way to reasoning, and he thought about how things had come to a head.It was after that night when the Wolf Boy, Shadow, carried Ginny out of the woods. The boy had been polite and respectful to his father, and extremely gentle and kind to Ginny. He had even defended Ron's own impetuous actions to his father. But then the boy saw Scabbers and immediately sent him and Ginny into the house. The next day his father had brought an animagus book for him, and pushed him to study it. The story given to the Ministry was mostly true; it just didn't reflect the encouragement Ron had had from his father to read the book. It was almost as if everything was planned, and that boy was the catalyst. It must have been him who recognised Scabbers wasn't really a rat. Had his father known, he would certainly have acted sooner.On the third day after the traitor was revealed, Ron was sitting at the kitchen table, lost in thought as usual. The twins were off somewhere creating mayhem and Ginny was in her room studying. Mrs. Weasley was bustling about the house as usual, tidying, cleaning and organising. She returned to the kitchen as a smart brown owl flew through the open back door and landed gracefully on the table in front of Ron. The tall teenager removed the letter that was attached to the bird's leg and it immediately it flew away, out of the Burrow and back from whence it came. Glancing at the envelope in his hands Ron was surprised to see it was addressed to him, and was adorned with the Ministry of Magic stamp. After a quick glance at his mother, who was watching him intently, he tore open the envelope and surveyed the contents. There was a long and wordy letter which commended Ron on doing his duty for society and other such verbose and condescending phrases. The crux of the missive, however, was the imparting of a reward for the apprehension of a Death Eater and dangerous criminal. The second piece of paper in the envelope was a Gringotts bank draught. For 500 Galleons. Ron Weasley's mouth fell open, moments before his whole body slipped onto the floor as he fainted."Aaaaaaaarrrrrrrggggghhhhh!" screamed Harry, as he thrashed around on his bed. Suddenly, Remus rushed into the room and saw the stricken boy, wrapped in the bed clothes that were damp with sweat. The werewolf sat on the edge of the bed and gripped his charge by the shoulders, and gently shook him awake."Adam? Adam? Wake up!"As Harry's conscious mind took over, he was immediately aware of the ache in his forehead – the place where his scar was hidden under a permanent glamour charm. He hadn't thought about his scar in years, but suddenly this morning, it ached with a severity he hadn't thought possible."Adam, what is it? What's the matter?" asked a worried Remus.Adam looked blearily around his bedroom. A few rays of sunlight were squeezing around the edges of his curtain, illuminating slices of dust particles that drifted around the room. The furniture was all in place; his messy desk, a bookcase overflowing with old and wondrous texts, the wardrobe. Remus was sat looking at him with concern, the wolf and the panther were both now awake and alert, sensing their master's distress."Bad dream, Moony. Really bad.""Want to tell me about it?""No…Yes…In a minute. Let me get cleaned up first, OK?""No problem, junior. I'll make some coffee."A short while later, Harry joined Remus in the cottage's kitchen, and sat at the heavy wooden table."Where's Sirius?" Harry asked."He's gone to the Ministry to get his official apology from Fudge. He should be back anytime soon, you did sleep pretty late."Harry looked at the clock. It was nearly eleven already – that was late for Harry. "Let's wait until he gets back then. I only want to re-live this nightmare once."Soon enough, Sirius returned with a grin so wide it looked as if his face might split open. His smile soon vanished when he saw the pale, quiet figure of his Godson, huddled over a cup of coffee and looking extremely pained."What's happened? Adam? Remus?""Sit down, Padfoot," began Remus. "Harry has something he needs to tell us about." Without hesitation Sirius took the seat next to Harry, while Remus sat opposite. Both waited patiently for Harry to begin his explanation."Well, I was having this dream, although it wasn't like a dream. It seemed so much more real. I mean…dreams are vague and change scenes and are generally weird, right? But this was so vivid, so completely sharp. It didn't feel like a normal dream at all. Does that make sense?""Of course it does, Adam," said Remus quickly as he saw Sirius start to shake his head. "What happened in this….vision?""Well, everything happened in a graveyard. There was a large cauldron that was bubbling away on a fire and a man dressed in black, who was carrying what looked like a baby to start with, but was actually some hideous baby sized creature…"…and then this…person, stood up and stepped out of the cauldron. The other man put a black robe on him. The person was strange, very strange. His face looked almost snakelike, and his eyes burned with a hateful passion. He pressed one of his fingers onto a tattoo on the other man's arm, and that's when my scar burst with pain and I cried out, and Moony woke me up."Remus and Sirius both looked horrified by Harry's story, and it showed clearly on their faces."What? It was just a dream, wasn't it?""Most likely," said Sirius, a little too quickly."Adam," Remus spoke slowly. "We need to speak to Dumbledore. I think you should tell him about this dream.""Why?"There was a pause before Remus answered. "Because, I think your dream was about Voldemort."Albus Dumbledore was busy working through papers in his office, getting ready for the school year that would begin shortly. There were many tasks to complete before the start of term; new students to learn about, staffing issues, budgets, timetables to ratify, prefect and Quidditch captains to appoint, supplies to order….It was a welcome relief when a brown post owl – of the kind used by the Hogsmeade Post Office – flew in through his open window and deposited a letter on top of his other documents. The envelope was addressed simply; only his name was written, without all the usual titles that official correspondence was adorned with. Using a beautifully crafted paper knife, the old headmaster cut open the envelope pulled out the short letter that was inside.Professor Dumbledore,Sirius Black and I are at the Hogs Head. There is someone here you should meet. It is extremely important. Please come alone.Regards,Remus LupinDumbledore read the note several times looking for a reason not to believe in its validity. Each time however, his curiosity increased further as to whom this mystery person could be. He also knew he had fences to mend with both men, especially Black. With a slight sense of excitement and a hint of anxiety, the revered educator left his office, bound for the village of Hogsmeade.A short while later, Albus Dumbledore entered the dark and dreary inn that was run by his brother Aberforth. The few patrons who were in the tavern at this time of day seemingly paid the old man no heed as he approached the counter, behind which his sibling was wiping dirty glasses with an equally dirty cloth."Aberforth!" called the headmaster, in greeting."They're upstairs, in the private room," replied the younger of the two brothers. Albus nodded once before heading into the back of the pub and up the stairs. The second floor of the Hogs Head was as equally small as the ground floor. There were meagre living quarters, which Aberforth occupied, and a small room which was used for those patrons who wished to have a private conversation. In a place like the Hogs Head, this room was well utilised.Albus arrived at the door to the private room, but paused for a moment to listen to the voices inside. The two voices he could make out were vaguely familiar, which was comforting. He had not seen Lupin or Black for many years, and was pleased to discover he still recognised their voices. Still wondering who they wanted him to meet, Dumbledore knocked firmly on the door, waited for a moment, then entered the room."Good morning, Professor Dumbledore." It was Remus who spoke first. He rose from his seat at the plain wooden table and offered his hand to his former headmaster, which was gratefully accepted. "It's been a long time.""Indeed it has. Good morning to you Remus, and you Sirius.""Headmaster," replied Padfoot."It is a long time since I have been a Professor or headmaster to either of you. Please call me Albus.""As you wish, Albus," said Remus, taking control of the meeting once more. "Please sit down with us.""Thank you, Remus. If I am honest, I am pleasantly surprised by the warmth of your greeting. I have done you both a serious disservice, for which I apologise unreservedly. If there is anything I can do. For either of you."It was Sirius who responded to his former headmaster. "Times were hard back then, confusing and testing, we all know that. But the past is exactly that, the past, and my anger has long since diminished. There is something we want from you, which is why we called you here to meet us." Sirius gestured to the corner of the room, where Harry had been quietly lurking in the shadows, unnoticed, observing the old man. Harry stepped forward and took the final place at the table."Albus, this is Adam. We would like you to admit him to Hogwarts."Albus Dumbledore stared at the young man who was now sat across the table from him. In his relief at receiving a gracious welcome from the two Marauders, he had not noticed this young man in the corner behind him. The teen had black hair and amazingly green eyes, just like…Harry watched the old man staring at him. He could almost see the cogs whirring in the old man's head as he took in Harry's appearance. After a few moments, a look of surprise flashed across the wizened face.Dumbledore concentrated hard on the boy's forehead. There was a glamour charm there. "It can't be…you're not…""Dead?" offered Harry. Remus and Sirius looked stunned at Dumbledore's loss of composure. This man never lost his cool."Are you really Harry Potter?""I am.""Well, my boy, I can't tell you how pleased I am to find you. Where have you been all this time? It was safe for you at the Dursley's house in Surrey…""Just stop there for a second, old man," interrupted Harry. "Just be quiet and listen for a moment. The Dursley's kept me in a cupboard. I was neglected, abused, starved and generally hated. When I was five I was driven to London and left outside an orphanage. The lady who took me in had to give me a name because I didn't know what mine was. My family had only ever called me 'useless boy' or 'stupid freak'. That place was not safe for me.""Harry, I…I thought it best that you went to your family…" said the Headmaster quietly."Those people hated my parents," Harry spat back. "Why do you think it was stated in their will that I should not go to them if something happened?" Seeing the surprise on Dumbledore's face, Harry continued his rant. "Yes, that's right. I've seen their will. Their final instructions that you saw fit to ignore. What gave you the right, Dumbledore? What gave you the right?""Harry, I…""Don't call me Harry. Harry Potter is dead. Harry Potter ceased to exist the moment you abandoned him on the doorstep of his relatives.""I'm sorry, Adam." Dumbledore spoke the name very deliberately. "Wizarding society is a fickle place. I wanted to protect you from the spotlight, so you could grow up away from all the attention you were bound to receive.""You're the most influential person in Wizarding society, and head of the British Wizarding legal system. If anyone is responsible for the state of our society then it's you, Professor. You may have been trying to protect me from the monster that is our world, a monster that you, by your inaction feed and nurture, but in giving that protection, you sent me into hell."Dumbledore was stunned by the vehemence in Harry's voice. He knew he'd made a mistake placing the boy with the Dursley's several years previously when he'd discovered they had dumped him in an orphanage, but the stinging ferocity of this young man's words brought home to the old headmaster the gravity of his error.A few moments of silence passed, during which Dumbledore was pensive, Remus quiet as he considered Harry's unusually emotive words, Sirius looked at his Godson with concern and Harry sat still, drained and anguished. Finally, it was Harry who broke the deadlock, as he got up suddenly, knocking his chair to the ground behind him."I need a drink," Harry muttered as he strode out of the room. Sirius began to rise, intending on following Harry but Remus stopped his friend."Give him a minute Padfoot."A short while later, Sirius found Harry sat at the bar, nursing an empty Butterbeer bottle."You OK, kid?""Fine.""Yeah, right!"When Harry didn't respond, Sirius spoke again. "You know you have to go back up there, don't you?" Harry turned his head and looked at his Godfather quizzically. "You have to tell him about the dream you had. That's why we came here after all, isn't it?""I don't want his help.""No, I don't suppose you do, but as you said, he is a very influential person. If Voldemort has returned, Dumbledore needs to know. He can speak to the public with authority; influence the Ministry, that sort of thing. Society at large needs to be warned, wouldn't you agree?""I guess."Upon returning to the small room above the bar, Harry recounted his dream to the old Professor, who listened intently, asked pertinent questions and seemed convinced that this was no dream but a vision of events actually transpiring. It was the headmaster's theory that some kind of mental link may have established between Harry and Voldemort when the killing curse had been cast, and this link had been the conduit for this vision.After much discussion, about the vision, Voldemort, and the threat he posed, it was agreed by all present – some more reluctantly than others – that it was time Harry attended Hogwarts, largely for his own safety. As soon as the decision was made, Sirius and Harry left, in order to spare Harry all the planning for something he didn't want to have to do. Remus stayed with Dumbledore to make the arrangements for Harry's transfer to Hogwarts.Dumbledore and Remus walked back to Hogwarts after Sirius and Harry had left. The pair chatted reasonably amiably, considering they had only reconciled their relationship barely an hour earlier. Back at the school, they Remus convinced the old man that Harry would be perfectly well placed in his own age group, and that he needed no special tutoring in any subject. As the topic moved round the curriculum to History of Magic, Dumbledore made Remus an unexpected offer."Remus, I'm sure you remember Professor Binns?""Of course, Albus. I think I'm the only one of my class who managed not to sleep through his classes.""That's my point, Remus. He really is frightfully boring, and children's heads are rarely interested in Goblins from hundreds of years ago. Not before time, I have decided on a change of scenery in the History classroom. This may seem sudden, given that we have only recently become reacquainted, but I would like to offer you the position of History of Magic teacher. I think it will be good for Adam to have you here, but I do believe you will do an excellent job.""Wow! I don't know what to say, Albus. I certainly wasn't expecting that.""Maybe you should think about it for a few days.""I think I will. I should talk to Sirius and Adam as well." Remus stood up to take his leave. "Goodbye, Professor Dumbledore. I'll be in touch soon.""Goodbye, Remus."Remus Lupin walked through the empty corridors and halls of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, turning over in his mind the headmaster's offer. Making his way through the ancient castle more on instinct than conscious thought, Moony soon found himself at the main door and striding down the path to the gated entrance to Hogwarts grounds. Still a little stunned by Dumbledore's offer, Remus Disapparated back to Devon, eager to tell Sirius and Harry his news.The remaining days of August disappeared quickly in a rush of preparations for both Harry and Remus, who were both going to Hogwarts. Sirius was planning for a trip around the world and was equally busy as the other two. The most noteworthy activity during the final days had been the purchase of Harry's wand. Although he was entirely proficient with wandless magic, it had been agreed to keep this fact hidden as much as possible, lest the wrong people learned of this talent. For Harry, this was simply the natural way, what he was used to after ten years of practice. Most wizards used a wand to focus their magic through a channel and out again in the form of a specific spell. In contrast, Harry had learnt as a child to focus his magic without the aid of a wand. There was no extraordinary power or talent, as far as he was concerned, that's just how it was done.Harry had stood in Ollivander's shop with a wand thrust into in his hand by the strange old man. "Well give it a wave," Ollivander had said, apparently amused by Harry's ineptitude. After many tests, the shopkeeper finally found a wand suited to Harry; it was made of holly with a phoenix feather core. Ollivander had seemed to be intrigued by this match between wand and wizard, Harry noticed, but he made no comment about it. Harry every spare moment since practising casting spells he had read about, with mixed success. A lot of the time, he focussed to heavily on saying the wands and moving the words to let his magic flow through his arm and hand and into the wand. It was when Harry stopped trying too hard and let the magic flow that spell-casting became successful. Harry quickly learnt that some things were more effective cast with a wand – precise actions like levitating a specific, small object for example. He could never heal a wound in this way, however, as he would instinctively spread his hands over an injured area, or around a broken limb.Finally, September 1st came around, and fifteen year old Harry, accompanied by Sirius arrived at Kings Cross station, ready for him to catch the Express. Remus had gone straight to the school rather than take the train, not wanting to get in Harry's way as he met new people, people his own age for the first time. After saying an emotional farewell to his Godfather, Harry boarded the first gleaming red carriage, and began walking up the train's corridor, searching for an empty compartment. At the back of the train, most of the compartments were beginning to fill. Towards the front, there were many spaces, so Harry picked one at random and sat on the padded bench seat, facing the way the train would travel. It was nearly eleven o'clock when the door to the compartment slid open, though Harry continued to stare out of the window."Excuse me, but do you mind if…" a girl's voice started asking, but it trailed off when Harry turned to look at her."Adam?" the girl asked, her voice sounding almost disbelieving"Yeah?""Adam Black?""How do you know who I am?""Don't you remember me? I'm Grace.""From St. Christopher's?" The girl beamed as comprehension dawned on the black-haired boy's face. "Is it really you?"Grace didn't answer but rushed into the compartment to give Harry a huge hug, which he returned rather awkwardly. He hadn't seen this girl for seven years, and she had changed considerably. Now that Harry knew who she was, he could recognise the smiling child in this attractive teenager as the first person he ever considered to be a friend."Ahem!" A polite voice in the doorway tried to get the attention of the two old friends. Grace pulled away from Harry and turned back to the door, where her cousin was standing patiently, but with a bemused expression."I' m sorry, cuz'. This is Adam; we were friends at the orphanage. Adam, this is my cousin, Hermione."Having waited for her introduction, the second girl stepped into the compartment and offered her hand to Harry. She was not exceptionally tall, or particularly short and had a pretty face, but not an obviously beautiful one. Her brown hair was thick and wavy – a band was struggling to keep all the loose strands back from her face. Unlike most of those students Harry had seen on the station and train, this girl was already wearing her black school robes, and pinned prominently next to the school crest was a shiny new prefect's badge."Hermione Granger," the girl said, as Harry shook her hand. "I'm one of the Gryffindor prefect's for the fifth year. I assume you are starting at Hogwarts? What year are you going to be in?"Hermione asked many questions, which Harry generally answered politely but with brief responses. He was more far more eager to talk to Grace than her extremely curious cousin. Thankfully, it was not too long before Hermione announced that she had to go to the prefect's carriage, ready for the meeting. Harry had no idea what that could be about, but he was glad the girl was leaving. Grace and Harry spent the next few hours telling each other about their lives. The blonde-haired girl had caused the explosion at the orphanage when she was mercilessly picked on by older boys. Her anger had triggered a massive flash of accidental magic, which caused some gas cylinders to rupture. Remarkably, Grace had survived reasonably unscathed, despite the loss of life to several other children. It was at this time that the Orphanage had been forced to close. Money had always been tight for Mrs. Rutherford and the cost of repair to the building would have broken her financially. The remaining orphans at the home where either shipped off to other orphanages, or for the lucky few, distant relatives were found who were willing to take in their kin.Hermione and Grace were not first cousins, but something like second or third. Nevertheless, Grace had been welcomed into Granger household, and Hermione and her had lived like sisters ever since. Whilst Hermione had been sorted into Gryffindor, Grace's geniality had led her into Hufflepuff, where she was popular, but not academically outstanding.Harry, for his part told Grace about Sirius and Remus, and the house the lived in the forest in Devon. He talked about the forest and the local villages, mentioning that he had met Luna Lovegood and Ginny and Ronald Weasley. He shared a little of what he learned about his parents, how they were kind, loving and good people, but had been killed by Voldemort.Several hours into the journey, Harry and Grace had finished telling their respective stories, and were sitting mostly in comfortable silence, occasionally chatting about something inconsequential. At some point a couple of new first years had asked to share the compartment, to which neither objected, but both were now asleep.The next visitor to their compartment was Ronald Weasley, who was extremely surprised to see his so-called assailant sitting staring out of the window. Harry looked at the shell-shocked red-head, whom he noticed was also sporting a Gryffindor prefect badge, and nodded his head in recognition. Flustered by this curt but obvious greeting, Ron paused a moment before returning the acknowledgement."Did you want something, Ron?" Grace asked."Err…I was looking for Hermione.""She's not been here since before your prefects' meeting. If she comes back I'll tell her you were looking for her, okay?""Um…yeah, thanks." Ron began sliding the compartment door closed, when Harry called out to him."How's your sister, Weasley?"The door slid back open forcefully, hitting the frame with a bang."What?" Ron snapped."Your sister's ankle. Is it all better now?" Harry asked calmly."Oh, yeah. It's fine."Harry nodded again at the red-head who had tried to punch him. Unable to find fault with Harry's attitude, Ron slid the door closed and stomped off up the train corridor, looking both for Hermione and the lady with the sweet trolley.In another compartment, elsewhere on the train, two friends were enjoying their ride to Hogwarts, passing the time reading and chatting. They had seen each other several times over the summer holidays, as they lived in neighbouring villages, on either side of a small forest."Luna?" asked the red-haired girl.The dirty-blonde Luna Lovegood looked up from the latest edition of The Quibbler, which she was reading upside down. "Yes, Ginny?""In the woods near your home, have you ever seen a…" Ginny trailed off."Seen a what, Ginny?""A boy.""A boy?""Yes.""Of course. Lots of people walk through the woods, especially in the summer. I often watch them and wonder why they are just walking. There are so many amazing creatures to see but no-one ever seems to pay any notice. Especially the boys. They're always more interested in picking up sticks and hiding from their parents…""No," interrupted Ginny, as her slightly scatty friend went off on a rant about something else. "A particular boy, dressed in black, with a pet wolf.""A boy dressed in black with a pet wolf?""I know it sounds crazy, but that time when I decided to walk home from your house, I fell and hurt my ankle pretty badly. This boy appeared and healed it, and then he carried me about two miles back to The Burrow. He was so strong, but kind and gentle. Mysterious too – he wouldn't tell me anything about himself. My brother's have seen him in the village a few times I think. He said his name was Shadow.""I'm sorry Ginny," said Luna. "I've never seen a boy dressed in black called Shadow with a pet wolf.""Oh. Never mind. I just…""But I have met a boy dressed in black with a pet wolf called Adam."Eventually, the bright, warm sunlight faded to leave behind a cool late summer evening. The Hogwarts Express pulled into the small station at the village of Hogsmeade. Harry knew he was supposed to go with the first years and take a boat across the lake to the school, so he said his goodbyes to Grace and followed the large booming voice that called down the platform."Firs' years! Firs' years this way!"Grace fought her way through the throng of students, looking for her dorm-mates, eventually finding them near the Thestral-pulled carriages. Grace had always been able to see the Thestrals, and having asked Hagrid about them one day, she assumed that it was because of the accident at the orphanage."Have a nice journey?" one of her friends giggled at her."Yes thank you. Why didn't you come and find me?""Well," began another of her friends. "We saw your cousin and asked her where you were, and she told us you were in a compartment with a boy, and that you probably didn't want to be disturbed.""So? Who is it?""And is he a good kisser?""WHAT? You think I was…Well I wasn't. He's an old friend who I haven't seen for many years. And we talked." Grace was exasperated by her friends' assumptions, but then they were fifteen year old girls."So?" asked one of them."So what?""Is he a good kisser?""I. Don't. Know.""Well, at least tell us what he looks like. Is he hot?"The doors to the Great Hall opened in front of the gaggle of nervous first years, and led by the stern Professor McGonagall, they shuffled their way along the centre aisle of the hall. As the first years moved on, Harry stopped for a moment in the doorway to take in the magnificence that was Hogwarts' Great Hall. On the far left, was the Slytherin table. Next were the Ravenclaws and across the aisle the proud Gryffindors. To the far right of the hall was the Hufflepuff table, where Harry's eyes scanned first, looking for Grace. She saw him looking for her and waved, ignoring the giggles coming from her closest house-mates.Sweeping his gaze up the other tables, Harry next noticed the girl he had met in the woods near his home, Luna Lovegood. As he walked slowly across the hall towards the waiting first years and the sorting area, he stopped briefly next to Luna, who had turned to look at him."Hello Adam," she said, in her usual airy tone."It's nice to see you, Luna," Harry replied, before he continued up the hall. Further along, he stopped again, for he had seen someone else he recognised – at the Gryffindor table. Her long, fiery, red hair fell down her back, and amazingly seemed to reflect the glow of the thousands of candles that floated above their heads. In complete disregard of the first years and the impatient deputy headmistress who was waiting to begin the sorting ceremony, Harry stooped so he could whisper in the ear of Ginny Weasley."I told you we'd meet again, Miss Weasley."Ginny turned to look at him, her face etched with surprise, for she had not noticed Harry enter the hall."And I haven't forgotten about the fox, either."Not giving her a chance to respond, Harry straightened up, and continued the last few steps to the front of the hall, where Professor McGonagall looked at him icily."Have you quite finished greeting your friends, Mr. Black?"Harry responded only by shrugging slightly and giving a faint nod. After one final glare at Harry, Professor McGonagall looked down at her parchment and began the sorting ceremony. The first years gradually dispersed to the four tables across the Great Hall, and soon only Harry remained. Not sure what to expect of his sorting, he sat on the stool and placed the floppy and tattered old hat upon his head."My goodness, what have we got here? Finally Harry Potter has arrived at Hogwarts. Going by the name Black now I see…well, let's have a look then. My you are an interesting one. There's a piece of everything in you, courage, cunning, loyalty and cleverness…Hmm…where to place you…"The hat pause for hat seemed like an age to Harry, before it continued. "I've considered everything, and based on your current position of duplicity, I place you in…SLYTHERIN."





--------




Aren't
I good to you, posting another chapter already? Well, the story is
all about Harry and Ginny from here on in. I hope you enjoy it.Mega
thanks to SNB, as alwaysChapter
5: In which Harry and Ginny talk I"…SLYTHERIN."The
voice of the Sorting Hat rang out through the Great Hall. Not wishing
to spend any more time under the gaze of every person present, Harry
removed the ancient hat from his head, and handed it to Professor
McGonagall before
makinghis
way to the Slytherin table. "This'll make it easier to mess with
the Snakes," hethought
to himself, as he squeezed into an empty space, which happened to be
next to a first year called Naomi Crabbe.Two
tables over, the Weasley twins were watching the newest Slytherin
closely."Hey,
Ron!" George called down the table, in a sort of whisper. Ron
Weasley snapped his head round to look at his older brothers."Isn't
that the guy who…?" asked Fred, but Ron cut him off."Yes,"
he shot
back,
hoping that Fred didn't finish his question out loud."And
he's the same guy who helped…?""Yes!"
Ron snapped. "Now shush."Not
that the twins cared particularly, but half of the Gryffindor table
was listening to the half-whispered conversation between the Weasley
siblings. Before the discussion could escalate further, however,
Professor Dumbledore was on his feet."To
staff and students, old and new alike, welcome to another year at
Hogwarts. For those of you who are wondering, Mr. Black will be
joining the fifth year. I ask that all of you make him feelwelcome."
The headmaster paused at this point, to look across each of the house
tables, lingering longest on the Gryffindors, and gazing deliberately
at the place where the fifth years sat."I
have one staffing change to announce. After many years, Professor
Binns has decided to leave his post and continue on to his next great
adventure." Within the students, many mutterings of surprise and
satisfaction could be heard. "Please join me in welcoming
Professor Lupin, who will be your new History of Magic teacher."
Almost every non-Slytherin student in the school clapped and cheered
Remus raucously. Even the Slytherins clapped politely, as everyone
was pleased that Binns was gone, and hoped that tedious lectures
about Goblin rebellions would be a thing of the past."Finally,
some announcements before we begin the feast…"The
headmaster made his notices, but within a few minutes, the tables
were laden with sumptuous food and refreshing drinks, for one and all
to satiate themselves. Harry was happily eating his dinner, wondering
which of the faces down the long table were the fifth years', when
a small voice to his side spoke up."So,
Adam Black. How come you didn't come to Hogwarts before now?" It
was the first year, Naomi Crabbe."It
was never the right time," Harry responded, trying to be as
vague as possible."Oh.
My name is Naomi. Naomi Crabbe. My big brother is down there."
She pointed at the larger students, towards the middle of the table.
"He's the big, ugly one sitting next to the blonde-haired boy.""It
sounds like you don't care for him much," Harry probed."He's
an idiot. Let's himself get ordered around by that blonde. He's
called Draco Malfoy."The
conversation continued, with Harry subtly interrogating the young
Miss Crabbe for information on all the Slytherin fifth years. By the
end of dinner, he learnt many useful bits and pieces about Malfoy,
Crabbe, Goyle and Theodore Nott. The other boy in the fifth year,
Blaise Zabini, Naomi didn't know much about, as his family generally
kept out of pureblood politics. She also knew plenty about Pansy
Parkinson and a little on Millicent Bulstrode.Soon
enough, dinner came to an end, and the students were dismissed back
to their dormitories. As Harry filed out of the Great Hall with the
rest of the school, he stole a glance at Remus, who saw and gave a
smile in return. On his way out through the large hall doors, Harry
found himself rubbing shoulders with Ginny Weasley."Hello
again!" Harry whispered."Hi,
Shadow," she replied with a smile. "When can we…?"
she began but trailed off as Harry followed the other Slytherins in a
different direction.Harry
listened to the seventh year Prefects' explanation of where the
dormitories were, and what the password to the common room was going
to be for the next week. Harry soon tired of listening to the guy
drone on about Slytherin traditions and values, and fell into a
reasonably comfortable black leather armchair, next to a roaring
fire. Soon afterwards, thechair
opposite Harry was taken by Blaise Zabini, who sat and regarded Harry
closely,
as if sizing him up. Between them, and opposite the fire was a
similarly styled black leather sofa, with room enough for three
people. This seat soon filled with girls, approximately Harry's own
age. He watched them subtly, taking in their different scents and
appearances. Unlike Zabini, the girls chattered away about
inconsequential matters that Harry tuned out.Looking
around the Slytherin common room, Harry was not surprised to see it
furnished in green, black and silver. All the chairs were upholstered
with black leather. Carpets and curtains were shades of green, and
door handles, candlesticks and the like were all wrought silver, in
most cases depicting snakes or serpents or something similar. All in
all, the room had a ruthless, efficient feel about it. There was
nothing to make its occupants feel welcome or at home, which Harry
certainly did not.He
was about to think through what he was going to say to Ginny Weasley
the next
time he saw her,when
he heard three sets of footsteps coming near, and the unmistakeable
smell of hair gel. Harry turned his head slightly to see Draco
Malfoy, Vincent Crabbe and Gregory Goyle had approached him. Feigning
a look of nonchalance, Harry turned to look into the fire."Hey,
Black!" called a haughty voice. Harry turned to look at the
blonde boy."Who
are you?" he replied dismissively."Malfoy.
Draco Malfoy. And you are sitting in my seat.""Your
seat?" responded Harry sarcastically. "I had no idea you
owned this seat. It must have your name on it somewhere then?"
he added, making a big show of pretending to look for Draco's name
written on the leather somewhere."No,
I don't own it, you moron, it's where I always sit. Now move, or…""Or
what, Smallboy? You'll set your slaves on me?""Hey!"
piped up Crabbe. "We're not his slaves.""Oh,
he pays you to obey his orders. I didn't realise." Harry turned
from Crabbe back to Malfoy. "Or what, Smallboy? You'll set your
servants on me?""Oi!"
called Goyle this time. "We ain't servants, neither."This
was all too easy to Harry, and he made a mental note to thank Naomi
Crabbe, and tell her about this conversation. "So why do you
follow him around and do what he tells you?" Harry asked the two
henchmen, completely ignoring Draco."What?
We don't…err…""He
doesn't…""Crabbe?
Goyle? Shut up!" snapped Malfoy."Don't
you tell me to shut up, Malfoy," retorted Crabbe."Yeah,
Malfoy. You shut up," added Goyle. "Come on, Vinnie, let's
go and find some more to eat."As
the two lumbering brutes headed off towards the dormitories, Harry
focused on Draco Malfoy once again."What
was it you wanted, Smallboy?""It's
Malfoy. You're sitting in…" Draco began, proverbial steam
coming out of his ears, but trailed off, turned on his heel and
stomped away towards the common room's exit. Harry sat back in the
armchair and laid his head on the back of the seat. The girlson
the sofa, who had stopped gossiping to watch the boys argue resumed
their inane chattering, and Zabini, Harry assumed, went
back to his
silent contemplation. After a few minutes, in which Harry decided he
would talk to the cute Weasley girl as soon as possible, Zabini
finally spoke up."You
know, Black, I've been sitting here wondering whether you really
belonged in Slytherin, but after watching you dismantle Malfoy like
that, I'm in no doubt.""Why
thank you, Zabini." The coloured boy momentarily showed his
surprise at being called by name before replacing his mask of
indifference.The
two fifth year Slytherins conversed politely for a short while,
allowing Harry to find out a little about how the school operated. As
September 1st
had fallen on a Saturday, the following Sunday was essentially a free
day for most students, seeing asthough
no lessons had taken place and no homework had been assigned yet. Of
course, there was the occasional forgetful pupil who had not
completed a summer assignment and was grateful of this fortunate day.
After a while though, Harry bade Blaise Zabini a goodnight, and
retired to find his dormitory and his bed.A
few diagnostic spells revealed to Harry that nothing untoward had
happened to either his bed or his belongings, and despite sharing a
dorm-room with Draco Malfoy, the night passed uneventfully.Even
after taking a detour via the Owlery, Harry was still one of the
first to arrive at the Great Hall for breakfast the
next morning.
Without the excited chatter of the entire school and the adrenalin
rush that accompanied the Sorting ceremony, Harry took a few moments
to admire the grandeur and majesty of Hogwarts' largest room. The
high vaulted ceilings, hundreds of feet above the long house tables
disappeared into the incredible illusion that mimicked the real sky
outside. The walls of the Great Hall were festooned with stone
tableaux, rich tapestries and shining suits of armour, which stood
mounted on plinths in the walls, like sentinels guarding the children
below.Harry
ate a leisurely breakfast as he watched the various members of the
school community arrive for breakfast. The students appeared slowly
at first, whereasthe
staff members were soon all seated in their usual places. Dumbledore
acknowledged Harry's presence with a slight nod, although this action
was repeated to those students at every table. At the end of the
staff table sat a tall, dark, greasy-haired man, whom Harry
recognised easily from Sirius' and Remus' descriptions. Snape
proceeded to observe Harry carefully, wondering about his newest
charge, trying to decide what to make of the boy who shared a name
with one of his old school enemies.Harry
was busy watching the comings and goings of his fellow students when
Naomi Crabbe sat beside him at the Slytherin table."Hello,
Adam," said the first year."Good
morning, Miss Crabbe," responded Harry. The young girl giggled
at being called 'Miss'."What
are you going to do today then? I'm going to go exploring with the
other girls in my room. Do you want to come with us?""Thank
you for asking, but I have other plans for today. There are people I
need to talk to.""That's
right; I remember when you came in. You stopped to talk to two girls,
didn't you? Is that who you have to talk to?" Harry didn't
answer this question, but merely raised an eyebrow at her."Knowledge
is power, Adam. Even if it is school gossip."The
arrival of a gaggle of Gryffindors took Harry's attention away from
the young girl beside him - among them were Grace's cousin, whom
Harry remembered meeting on the train, Ronald Weasley, whom Harry
would never forget, and of course the person to whom Harry's eyes
were immediately drawn, Ginny Weasley."So
it's the Weasley girl, then?" piped up a quiet voice near
Harry's right elbow. Harry turned to the girl and tried to give her a
withering look, but he wasn't really bothered by her, and she didn't
even particularly notice his expression anyway.The
hall was as full as it was going to get now, with only a few spare
seats to be found on each of the house tables, left empty by those
very early risers or by those deciding to take full advantage of the
day off and stay in bed. With breakfast attendance at its peak, a
torrent of owls of all shapes and sizes flooded down into the hall
from an open window high above the staff table. As excited children
grabbed at packages of forgotten itemsand
letters of encouragement from loved ones, few people noticed the
black falcon darting between the owls towards a certain red-haired
Gryffindor.Ginny
had barely begun buttering a piece of toast when Errol, her family's
old post owl landed haphazardly on the Gryffindor table, bearing a
package for Ron. No doubt it contained some essential item that he
had forgotten to bring; Ginny wondered if it was his brain. A moment
later, Hermione's gasp cut above Ron's mumbles about the old owl, and
Ginny looked up to see what had surprised her friend. Amongst the
owls darting down towards the students, a black falcon was hovering,
a scrap of parchment clutchedin
its talons. As Ginny looked at the bird, it dropped the parchment
onto her plate, before disappearing up into the maelstrom of wings
and hooting. Ginny snatched up the small piece of parchment, curious
as to its message. Glancing at the note, she saw it was written in a
rough, scruffy hand. The few words were straight to the point.After
breakfast. Entrance hall.Look
in the Shadows.Instinctively,
Ginny spun her head round to look at the Slytherin table, but she
could not see him sitting there. As she turned to scan the hall, she
noticed someone with black hair disappearing out of the doors."Ginny!"
whispered Hermione in her ear."Ginny!"
The older girl tried again when
she wouldn't answer.
Ginny turned back to her breakfast and her friend."Well?
What does it say? And why did you look at the Slytherin table? Is it
from Adam Black?""Shhh!"
hissed Ginny, while jerking her head at her brother who was sat
opposite. Fortunately, Ron had been too busy trying to retrieve his
package from the exhausted Errol to notice Ginny receive a note, or
the type of bird that delivered it."Yes,
it's from him.""Why
do you suppose he has a falcon, not an owl? As far as I know, only
one other person used falcons to deliver messages – Grindelwald. He
used them to send death sentences to his victims…"Ginny
tuned out the droning voice of Hermione as she went into full lecture
mode, and went back to her breakfast. Ron had finally got Errol sent
on his way and was making short work of a plateful of bacon, eggs and
sausages. Halfway through a second slice of toast, Ginny noticed
Hermione had finished her spiel."Ginny,
did you listen to anything I said?""Not
really, Herms," replied Ginny, receiving a disapproving look in
return. "Look, he just wants to talk to me, OK? And to be quite
honest, I want to talk to him. Just don't tell Ron, alright?"One
of the few people in the Great Hall who had noticed the black falcon,
was Albus Dumbledore. Despite his grand age, somewhere in the one
hundred and fifties, his observation skills remained as sharp as a
new pin. The bird had immediately caught his attention and he watched
intently as it flew to Ginevra Weasley, and how she immediately spun
around tolook
at the Slytherin table. It didn't take a genius to work out who she
was looking for, not after he had spoken to her as part of his
dramatic entrance. Intrigued by the nature of the relationship
between Miss Weasley and the disguised Harry Potter, the old man
finished up his breakfast in quiet thought.It
wasn't long before both Ginny and Hermione had had their fill of
breakfast fare, and they headed out of the Great Hall. Ron was still
at the table, scoffing a few slices of toast and chatting animatedly
about Quidditch with his dorm-mates. As usual, Hermione Granger was
talking about her studies."…But
when I got to chapter seventeen, I really started to get confused. I
mean, what on Earth is 'Reverse polarity arithmantic
exponentialism' supposed to be?" asked Hermione as the two
girls crossed the Entrance Hall."I
asked myself that very same question, Miss Granger," came a
voice from behind them, making the girls jump with surprise. As Ginny
and Hermione turned round, the owner of the voice continued."Fortunately,
by the time you get to chapter nineteen, it all falls into place.
Yes, I was really bad company on my eleventh birthday. I expect my
Godfather regretted buying me that book. I was so absorbed in it that
by the evening I still hadn't said a word to anyone all day.""You…you…you
read Ultimate
Arithmantic Theory for Geniuses
when you were eleven?" asked Hermione, almost in shock."Nah.
I'm just kidding. I read it this summer. Didn't understand a word of
it the first time through. After the third time though, it began to
make sense. Now, if you'll excuse me, Miss Granger, I have an
appointment with Miss Weasley." Harry turned slightly to face
Ginny. "Shall we?" he asked, offering his arm.Hermione
was still standing in the Entrance Hall contemplating the fact that
Black was more advanced than she was in Arithmancy studies, when Ron
came out of the Great Hall."Hey,
Hermione! Was that Ginny going off with some bloke?""Yes,
Ronald, it was. And if you don't want a message from a black falcon
prescribing your untimely demise, I suggest you don't make a big deal
out of it." Hermione smirked at Ron's confused expression,
turned on her heel and headed towards the library, with the tall
red-head trailing along after her.Ginny
Weasley and the boy she knew as Adam Black, or Shadow, wandered arm
in arm out through the great, oak doors of Hogwarts. As they strolled
casually down the cinder path towards the gates where the winged boar
statues stood guard, Ginny wondered excitedly aboutwhat
he was going to tell her. She had started to talk as soon as they
left the castle, but he quickly hushed her with a whispered "Not
yet. Not here."The
path wound along the edge of the Forbidden Forest for a time, and at
the precise spot where the castle was out of sight for a few paces,
Harry steered Ginny into the trees."Adam,
we can't go in here. It's forbidden. As in 'The Forbidden Forest'."Harry
laughed momentarily before answering the red-head. "Where's your
Gryffindor sense of adventure? Besides, your fox will like it in
here.""What's
that supposed to mean?""Well,
aren't Gryffindors supposed to be brave and rash…?""No,
you joker. What do you mean about the fox liking it in here?""All
in good time, my dear Miss Weasley.""Where
are we going anyway?""There's
a clearing, about half a mile in, according to my falcon.""You
can talk to your falcon?""Of
course not. Whoever heard of a person who could talk to birds?""But
how do you…?""All
in good time," Harry interrupted.Ginny
harrumphed in dissatisfaction at Harry's answer, but he appeared not
to notice, but continued making his way through the tangled
undergrowth, towards an opening in the trees some way ahead.It
took about little while, but the pair eventually made it to the
clearing to which they had been headed. The late summer sun was still
low in the sky and the air in the forest opening was cool and damp.
The trees in this part of the forest were mostly a mixture of beech,
oak and elm, and their leaves rustled ceaselessly in the morning's
breeze. All about, the sounds of birds, insects and small animals
could be heard. Other things too, Ginny supposed, but dared not
wonder.Harry
stood in the middle of the clearing, his head right back so thathis
face pointed towards the sky. With his arms hanging loosely at his
sides, the Boy-Who-Lived stayed motionless for several minutes,
letting the sounds and smells of the forest wash over him. The earthy
smell of damp wood. The sound of a thrush breaking open a snail
against a flat stone. Here in the forest, Harry was truly in his
element. He could have stayed that way for hours, but Ginny, on the
other hand, was giving in to her curiosity, and could wait no longer."Adam?
Can we talk now?" she asked softly."Of
course," he replied, coming out of his trance and turning to
face her. "Give me a few moments…" Harry trailed off,
turning his attention instead to transfiguring a couple of twigs that
lay on the ground into soft blankets. "I doubt anyone will
overhear us here. Besides, I will hear anyone approach long before
they get close enough to hear what we are saying. Please, take a
seat," he politely offered."How
did you…? No wand…but...""All
in good time," he said slowly and deliberately, at which Ginny
stuck her tongue out at him. When the pair was comfortably seated on
the blankets, it was Harry who spoke first."Tell
me about them.""About
who?""The
fox and the phoenix. You tell me your story, and I'll tell you mine.""Yours?""Yes,
mine, which I fear will take longer, so I invite you to go first.""Well,
it was on my fifth birthday. I was standing in front of my mirror, so
I could brush my hair when I saw the fox on my chest. Then I saw the
phoenix on my arm as well. Living with Fred and George, I naturally
assumed this was something they'd done to me during the night while I
was asleep - they're really into pranks. Anyway, I did what any
five-year-old would have done; I yelled for my mum. Just like me, she
assumed it was the twins and hauled them out of bed and gave them an
earful. Eventually though, she and Dad realised it couldn't have been
them, seeing as though neither of them was able to do anything about
it. They took me to the Accidental Spell Damage ward at St. Mungo's,
but nobody there could do anything at all.The
two tattoos never seemed to do anything, and didn't affect me in any
way, so we just decided to live with them, I suppose. It's not as if
they're ugly or anything, is it? I quite like them now though,
although no-one outside our family knows anything. Apart from you.
So, that's my story. Are you going to tell me how in Merlin's name
you knew they were there?""If
I remember correctly, it was my wolf that detected the presence of
the fox and the phoenix. A very keen sense of smell, the wolf.""What
have you done with it, anyway? Didn't it always follow you around
back at home?""I
think, Ginny, it is time for me to show you something." As he
finished saying these words, Harry peeled of the black polo-neck top
he was wearing. As his torso was revealed, Ginny gasped with
amazement. Harry stood and turned slowly, so that Ginny could see
each side of him, and thus see all five of Harry's tattoos."Wow!"
was Ginny's considered response. Whether it was caused by the finesse
of the artwork on his body or Harry's muscular physique he didn't
question. Instead, he remained standing and continued his
explanation, completely unabashed at his state of undress."You
see the wolf, here on my chest?" Ginny nodded, looking up at him
in awe. "Watch." Ginny did as she was commanded, and
watched in amazement as the tattoo seemed to bulge and become three
dimensional. Suddenly, a black blur burst from Harry's chest and
coalesced on the ground beside him. In a fraction of a moment, it had
formed into a very real black wolf. The youngest Weasley momentarily
froze from the shock causing Harry to drop to her side and gently
shake her by the shoulders."What
happened?" Ginny asked, a little confused."You
zoned out for a moment.""Oh."
She thought for a moment, trying to remember what had jst happened.
"The wolf…it came right out of your chest.""Yeah,
look." Harry pointed at his still bare chest. The wolf tattoo
was gone, but sniffling around the edges of the blanket a very real,
black wolf was stood. "I tried to slow it down so you could see
what was happening, but I guess it made the whole thing look really
freaky.""You
could say that," Ginny replied, still a bit shaky. "So,
what is it?""As
far as I know, the wolf is completely real and a totally normal wolf.
Apart from the colour, as there's no species of wolf that is black. I
can call it out from the tattoo to be real at any time, all of them
in fact. Do you want to see?""OK,"
Ginny said nervously, not really sure if she wanted to see or not."I'll
do it quicker, so it's not so weird…"In
barely a moment, a black falcon was beating its wings and soaring
into the sky, the panther was stretching its legs in feeling the weak
warmth of the dappled sunlight. The snake was coiled around Harry's
arm and the spider was stepping down his body to explore the grass.Understandably,
Ginny was somewhat nervous to now be in the company of a wolf, a
panther and a snake, but Harry sensed her anxiety."It's
OK, Ginny. They are all completely under my control." At this,
Harry had the three creatures take up positions in a triangle
formation around the two blankets. "They will keep watch for
anything approaching.""Do
you think…?" began Ginny."Yes.
I do," Harry interrupted. "You just have to want them to
come out. Will it to happen. They are a part of you, just like your
arms or legs. You have complete control over them.""What
does it feel like? Should I stand up? I'm scared, Adam." Ginny
fired off questions, apprehension in her voice was evident but there
was also a hint of excitement. Harry smiled at her in what he thought
was a reassuring way."Strange
at first, I suppose, but you'll soon get used to it. You'll be fine
sitting down. I can only tell you that it doesn't hurt and that it
will be weird to start with. I don't know what it'll be like for you,
but I experience one sense from each of my animals.""I
don't understand. What do you mean; one sense from each?""I
can see what the falcon sees, taste what the snake tastes, feel what
the spider feels, hear what the panther hears and I can smell what
the wolf smells. After a while I learned how to tune in each animal
if I wanted to experience what it was experiencing. It won't be the
same for you though, as you've only got two animals.""Should
I try it?""Might
as well. I'd go with the fox first, who knows what'll happen with the
phoenix.""Alright
then." Ginny shifted away from Harry and got up onto her knees.
She started pulling off her jumper, revealing an expanse of bare
stomach when Harry started."Whoa!"
Ginny, what are you doing?""I
have something underneath. Besides, you took off your top. I assumed
the tattoo has to be visible." She reached under her jumper and
pulled down the bright red camisole that was under it, before pulling
the outer layer completely off."Yes,
well," began Harry, bashfully looking away. "It's probably
best to start with, until you get used to it."Ginny
smiled at the boy, amused by his awkwardness. After a moment though,
she began to concentrate on the task at hand. The more or less
entirely visible above the delicately scalloped edge of her camisole,
Ginny thought with her entire consciousness about the animal. She had
gazed at its every detail for many hours, always wondering where it
had come from. Now, as she waited on the brink of discovering its
purpose, a question that had puzzled her for nine years, she paused,
daring to hope the fox would burst from her chest as Adam's wolf had
done.Fox.Fox.Come
out, Fox. As
her mind dared to think those three words, Ginny felt the stirring of
the creature. A swirling mass of red, orange and brown burst from her
chest and gathered on the ground, quickly forming into a medium
sized, female fox.Harry's
wolf and panther picked up their heads and turned to look at the new
creature. Bidden by their master, however, they remained at their
posts, sentinels watching over the young couple."I
did it!" squealed Ginny, who had begun to stroke the small
animal. Harry got over his embarrassment at seeing Ginny's camisole
and watched for a moment at the delight that showed on Ginny's face.
Her eyes danced with merriment and her smile filled Harry with a
strange feeling of contentment."Let
it do what it wants for a moment. Don't try to control it,"
instructed Harry. "Do you feel anything?"Ginny
watched in amazement as the creature, which was particular red for a
fox, looked around itself, sniffing the air and instinctively
searching for threats. Somehow it knew that Harry's animals were
friendly, and it paid them little heed as it scurried around the
small clearing.Harry
watched as Ginny concentrated on the fox. Her smile had been replaced
by a look of wonder, of amazement."Ginny?"
Harry prompted."Yes!
I can smell what she smells, and see through her eyes if I close my
own. I can feel the grass beneath my feet and hear all the noises of
the forest. This is incredible, overwhelming. How do you cope with
this?""Bring
her back to you now, Ginny. Will her to come to you."Ginny
gave Harry a questioning look, but complied nonetheless. The fox
padded silently across the clearing and stood in front of the
astounded girl."Will
her back into you now." Ginny complied, again without protest,
and she sat rigidly still as the fox dissolved back into the swirling
mass and reappeared as a tattoo above her left breast. "Any
chance you are able," Harry continued, "Allow her to come
out. The more she is out, the more in tune you will become, and the
better you will understand how to experience the fox's senses. And,
if I am any indication, you may find your own senses sharpen as
well.""Huh?""Maybe
I should tell you my story. I can explain about the animals as we go
along.""Can't
I try the phoenix first?""If
you want to. Although, what you'll feel from a phoenix I can only
guess."Harry
watched this time as the young girl centred herself and began to
focus once again. As she cleared her mind, Ginny thought only of one
thing.Phoenix.Phoenix.Come
out, Phoenix! There
was no coalescing mist, or swirling colour that gathered into a form.
Instead a sudden burst of red flame appeared to fire straight out of
Ginny's left arm. The flame jetted round the startled girl a few
times, and as it did so the ball of flame morphed into the shape of a
large bird. In front of Ginny, where she knelt on the conjured
blanket, stood a flame-red phoenix, its magnificent colours bright in
the dappled light of the clearing."Whoooaaa!""Impressive,
Ginny," said Harry."I
can feel…no. I can sense what she senses. It's like I'm testing
myself. As she looks at me, she senses my soul, and sees that I'm
honest and good.""A
small part of you is a phoenix. It's not surprising that you're a
good person."At
Ginny's mental thought, the incredible bird turned to look at Harry."And
what does she tell you about me, Ginny?""Your
soul is pure but is tainted by the darkness. You are hiding. You are
not all that you seem."Ginny
was shocked by the thoughts that were flowing into her mind as she
linked with the Phoenix. "What does this mean, Adam? I feel that
I can trust you implicitly but I no longer feel that I know who you
are.""Perhaps
you should pull the phoenix back into yourself again. I can tell you
my story and answer all your questions. I think it will take a long
time for you to get used to the empathic nature of these wonderful
creatures."Ginny
was sad to have to reabsorb the phoenix so soon, but she was eager to
hear Harry's tale, and understand who he was and why his soul was
tinged with the dark. She focussed herself and willed the beautiful
bird back onto her arm. Again, it was not like the fox, but instead
the phoenix disappeared in a flash of flame, reappearing as the still
and silent tattoo on Ginny's left arm. The young teenager settled
herself comfortable on the blanket and looked up at Harry, who was
now on his feet casting a privacy ward around the pair."Are
you ready, Ginny?""Yes.
I want to know everything.""Very
well." Harry sat back down in front of the pretty girl. His eyes
looked into hers for a fraction of a moment, before they glazed over,
and Harry cast his mind back to a time he had tried hard to forget."When
my parents were killed, I was placed with my mother's relatives; my
aunt and her husband, and their son. They didn't really want me and
are completely averse to anything magical. I was too young at the
time to understand why but I later learned that it stems from my aunt
being jealous of my mother being a witch. I was treated badly by my
relatives, starved, neglected. I was made to sleep in a cupboard,
barely fed and never shown any affection. However, on my fifth
birthday, everything changed.Just
like you did, Ginny, I woke up with these tattoos. Of course, it
drove my aunt and uncle crazy, so much so that they decided to get
rid of me; my uncle drove me into London and left me on the side of
the road, outside an orphanage, with the instruction not to knock on
the door until he'd driven away."Ginny
was enraptured by this boy's sad tale, and sat mesmerised, with tears
slowly rolling down her cheeks."The
lady who ran the orphanage took me in and asked for my name. I just
stood there and stared at her. I didn't even know my own name. She
decided to call me Adam, Adam Black.""Do
you still not know your real name?" whispered Ginny."Oh
yes. I found out three years later. At the orphanage I was given
clothes of my own and a bedroom. I made a friend. For the first time
that I could remember I felt safe and wanted. I went to classes at
the orphanage and hung out with Grace, but at nights, when I was
supposed to be sleeping, I really came alive.Completely
by accident I had called out the snake and the spider while I was
still at my relative's house. What had really freaked me out was that
the snake spoke to me. I could talk to it.""You
mean…?""Yes,
I'm a Parselmouth. The first chance I got, on my first night at the
orphanage, I called out all the animals. The wolf and the panther
were not quite fully grown, but over the time I was there they
reached their full size. Every chance I had, I would let the animals
out. The more they were out, the more in tune with their abilities I
became. I learnt over time how to switch on and off what they were
seeing, or hearing or whichever one it was. But what was amazing, and
it took a while before I started to notice, was that my senses were
enhancing, too. My eyesight has improved so much that I don't need to
wear glasses anymore. I grew strong as well, like the panther, fast
and nimble like the spider. As a child I was a lot stronger and
faster than the other kids; it's not quite so extreme now but I'm
still far stronger and faster than I appear.This
is why you need to have the fox and the phoenix out in the open as
much as you can. The more they are out, the more natural it becomes;
they are just another part of you and you need to learn how to use
them, especially the phoenix. I doubt you'll be able to fly or flash
from place to place but it already seems you will be able to use some
of the mental abilities.Anyway,
I'm getting off track. One night something that I wished for
happened, and the snake told me that I am a wizard, marked by the
Gods. I've never understood what that meant, but from then on I
explored what I could do. Summoning, levitating, transfiguring. I
just had to use my will and these things happened. After a while, I
began to question what magic felt like, and I just lay there on my
bed thinking about it. I began to understand. The magic is a part of
me. I could feel it in every part of me, my hands, my feet, in my
bones and in my heart. As I concentrated on the magic, I used my will
to move it around inside me, finally forcing some out through my
finger tips into my hands.""Can
you show me?"Harry
held his hands in front of himself, making them into a cup shape.
Within a second, he was holding a swirling, writhing ball of black
flames."Wow!""When
I first did this, the flames were blue, but over time they have
darkened to black. I guess this has happened due to my appearance,
and affinity with the shadows.""That's
amazing, Adam. Is that really raw magic? It's so alluring.""Yes,
Ginny, it is raw magic. What I learned to do with it, is this…"
Harry closed his hands over the pulsing, living sphere. A moment
later, as he pulled them apart, a single stem cut rose, with a
perfect red bloom appeared, which Harry offered to the girl opposite
him."It's
beautiful," she whispered."Then
it suits you well," responded Harry.Ginny's
eyes snapped up from looking down at the scarlet flower, and locked
on to Harry's. Seeing nothing but sincerity, Ginny blushed slightly
before smiling back at him. After a moment in which the two young
people seem to lose themselves in each other's eyes, Harry broke
away."Basically,
I spent three whole years practising anything I could think of that
magic might be able to do and growing used to the animals and the new
abilities they were giving me. On my eighth birthday, two men came to
the orphanage, claiming to be friends of my parents. This was the day
that I learned who I really am."Harry
paused for a moment, as his thoughts drifted back to that day, the
day he found out about his parents, who they had been, and what had
really happened to them. Ginny's impatient voice brought him out of
the daydream."And?
Who are you?""Harry
Potter."





--------




Here's
another chapter for you, I hope you like it. Mega hugs to SNB.Chapter
6: In which Harry and Ginny talk II"And?
Who are you?""Harry
Potter."On
hearing Harry's words, Ginny's expectant face immediately switched to
one of utter confusion. As she warred internally with the conflict
between her prior knowledge and her instinct that this boy was
telling the truth, Harry watched her. After an awkward silence that
stretched for over a minute, Harry spoke again."Ginny?""I'm
sorry. Did you really just say that you are Harry Potter?""Yes.""I
thought he was dead.""In
some ways, I am.""I
don't understand. I mean, my parents told me stories when I was
little about this amazing boy who defeated You-Know-Who, but then the
papers reported that he had been killed in an explosion. And here you
are, claiming to be that same person, even
though
you don't have the scar that he's famous for. All logic tells me that
you can't be Harry Potter, but my instinct…my heart knows it to be
true.""Why
don't you bring out your phoenix again? Her presence and judgement of
me might help to persuade the logical you."Ginny
nodded at Harry's suggestion, and concentrated on the magnificent
bird. In barely a moment, a flash of fire signified the presence of
the king of all birds."Make
the phoenix look at me. Ask her to judge me once more."Ginny
obeyed and willed the phoenixto
test the validity of the black-haired boy's claim. It only confirmed
what she knew in her heart to be true. Sat before her was the subject
of all her wildest childhood dreams. Reassured by his honesty, Ginny
backtracked to something he had said
earlier."What
did you mean when you said, 'In some ways, I am'?""As
far as I'm concerned, the famous Harry Potter, the Boy-Who-Lived,
Defeater-of-the-Dark-Lordis
dead. Killed by an old man's error of judgement. Killed by an abusive
family. I am Adam Black, a boy who happened to once be called by
another name. As Adam Black I am inconspicuous. No-one expects me be
a Gryffindor, or be great at Quidditch like my father was. No, as
Adam Black I can stay in the shadows, where I am happy, out of the
spotlight, away from the burden of expectation. And I do have the
scar; it's just well hidden under a permanent charm."This
had all come as a massive shock to the youngest Weasley, whose past
did, as she said, include a short-lived infatuation with the
Boy-Who-Lived. "Who else knows?" she asked quietly."The
headmaster, my two guardians and now you. It is essential that you
keep this to yourself. My guardians were friends of my parents, and
as I was just getting to in my story, it was them who told me who I
really am. Eventually, it became necessary for me to come to
Hogwarts, for my own safety, so we had to tell Dumbledore. I trust
you, Ginny. Whether it's the phoenix in you, or the fact that you,
too, have these strange tattoos. It's like we're kindred spirits or
something. I can't help but trust you; you will keep my secrets,
won't you?""Harry...Adam…damn.
I don't know what to call you now.""Adam,
please. Always Adam.""OK,
Adam. I spent nearly a decade wondering about these two tattoos that
I have. What are they? Where did they come from? Is it only me?
Finding someone else with them, too, is just incredible, but to find
someone who understands what they are and can teach me how to use
them…it's more than I ever imagined. We do have a bond. We both
have something no-one else does, as far as we know. There is no-one
who could possibly understand what it feels like to have a part of
youdetach
itself and fly away, and yet still be a part of you. The first time
we met, something was created between us, a bond, an understanding.
Finding you, being found by you, it's made a part of my life make
sense. You've filled the empty space that's been inside me since I
was five years old. I'll never do anything to jeopardize the
completeness that you've given me. I swear on my magic, I'll never
tell a soul."Harry
listened attentively to Ginny's heartfelt words. In the short space
of a few hours, he had let someone further into his life than anyone
had ever been allowed before. It went against his usual sense of
guardedness and yet it seemed so natural, so instinctive."Thank
you, Ginny," he whispered."Thank
you, Adam," she returned.The
pair exchanged a hug, brief yet meaningful. It was Ginny who steered
the conversation back to where it had been left
off."So,
what happened when these two men came to get you?"Harry
proceeded to tell Ginny how Mrs. Rutherford had taken him from his
class and introduced him totwo
men who claimed to have been friends of his parents. He explained how
he seemed to be able to tell their honesty by looking them in the
eye, learning later that he had a modicum of innate Legilimency
at his disposal. After saying goodbye to Grace, his first ever
friend, he left with the men, and lived the next seven years in the
supposed haunted cabin in the forest near Ginny's home.Harry
described his life living with the two men, how they had taught him
everything they could about magic, life and the Wizarding World. He
told of his time wandering the forest, how he met Luna and how he
came to be nearby when Ginny had fallen and hurt her ankle. Soon
enough, Ginny asked who the two men were."One
of them is our new History professor, Remus Lupin.""Really?
You're so lucky having one of your guardians as your teacher.""You
think so? He'll just be tougher on me so it doesn't look like I'm his
favourite. Anyway, that's something else that only the Headmaster
knows.""Oh,
OK. Who's your other guardian then?""You
remember that incident in the summer, with Ron's rat?""Of
course. The rat turned out to be a guy called Peter Pettigrew, who
had framed Sirius Black for murder, and who was the real Secret
Keeper for the Pot…"Ginny
trailed off when she realised how casually she was speaking about
Harry's parents."Yes.
He betrayed my parents to Voldemort."Ginny
cringed as Harry said the Dark Lord's name. "So? Who is it?""Sirius
Black. He's my Godfather.""Bloody
hell, Adam. You don't do things by halves do you?""I
guess not, Ginny. I guess not."The
pair continued to talk about their lives, neither one noticing lunch
time at the castle come and go as they were too engrossed in learning
about each other to care. At about three in the afternoon, Harry
realised that the late summer sun was now hidden by a layer of grey
clouds, and the temperature in the forest clearing was becomingdecidedly
cool."I'm
getting cold, Ginny. Do you want to go back to the castle?""We
can't!" she responded quickly. "I mean, you were going to
explain how you do all your magic without a wand.""That's
true. Well, if we're staying for a while, I need to warm up a bit.""We
could make a camp fire. For some reason, I'm pretty good at fire
spells.""OK,
but we can't just light it on the grass, it'll scorch the ground.""Can't
you conjure a fireplace, or something?""I
guess…." Harry concentrated for a few moments, gathering a
ball of swirling blackness in his hands. When the ball had grown to
the desired size, Harry set it on the grass, a few metres from the
blankets on which the pair were still sitting. The raw magic morphed
into a slab of stone, a few inches thick and about three feet across.
"I've done my bit…"Harry
sat back down on the blanket and looked expectantly at Ginny. "Any
particular colour?" she enquired."You
do colours?""Yes.
Whatever you want.""In
that case, how about a nice Slytherin green?""Ha
ha! Very funny, get the Gryffindor to do the enemy's colours."
Harry didn't respond to this taunt, but merely waited, staring at
Ginny."Oh
very well," she sighed, before drawing her wand and sending a
jet of green flame towards the stone slab. As the jet hit the centre
of the stone, Ginny kept it going until enough fire had pooled, so
that it would sustain itself. "I reckon that'll be good for a
few hours."Harry
could feel the warmth coming from the dancing and flickering green
flames. As the pair both shuffled closer to the fire and warmed their
hands, they were not aware of the two pairs of eyes that were
watching them from a distance of about one hundred metres. Eyes whose
owners were hidden even from the senses of Harry's watching animals."So,"
said Ginny a few minutes later. "Are you going to show me?""We
can start, but this will probably take a long time. You do realise
that, don't you? And I mean weeks, not hours.""Oh.
I still want to learn though.""Good.
It just means we'll have to have more secret rendezvous," said a
smirking Harry."That's
fine by me," Ginny replied, with a slight blush.The
pair stopped and stared goofily at each other for a moment, before
Harry took control of him self, and
tried to remember what he had said to Remus when he had tried to
teach him the principles of wandless magic."The
first step is feeling your magic. It's easier if you lie down for
this." As Ginny complied, Harry continued his instruction. "Are
you completely comfortable? Close your eyes. For the moment, just
listen to my voice and do everything I tell you…"The
next couple of hours passed by in extreme peace and quiet, as Harry
guided Ginny into a state of utter relaxation. Eventually, she began
to feel a faint tingling that meant she was beginning to feel her own
magic, just as Harry had done, some many years before.Throughout
the afternoon, Ginny's conjured fire burned consistently, needing no
fuel to sustain it. The conjured stone withstood the heat of the
flames, and together themakeshift
hearth kept the pair of young people warm during their endeavours.
Finally, as the sun dipped below the trees, Harry and Ginny succumbed
to hunger and headed back towards the hustle and bustle of the
castle."What
have you been doing all day, Black?" The annoying voice of Draco
Malfoy assaulted Harry's ears as he tried to cross the Slytherin
common room, and head to dormitories.
He stopped and turned towards the blonde, who was sitting in his
seat, adjacent to the fireplace. Pansy Parkinson was draped over one
of the arms of the easy chair, trying to scowl at Harry for
distracting Draco from her ministrations."Why,
I didn't know you were so concerned, Smallboy!""My.
Name. Is. MALFOY!" the boy fumed."Whatever.
Anyway, you don't want to know.""If
I didn't want to know, I wouldn't have asked, Black. Where have you
been?"Harry
stalked towards Malfoy, who tried to stand up, but due to the
simpering presence of Parkinson, the human fawn, hewas
barely out of the chair by the time the black-haired boy reached him."I've
been busy. Minding my own damn business." Harry's voice was
cold, devoid of the usual sarcastic tone he had reserved for the
Malfoy twerp. Resuming his march towards the dormitories, Harry
called back over his shoulder. "See you at dinner, Smallboy.""IT'S
MALFOY!" screamed out Draco, causing many fellow Slytherins to
snort or snigger.Meanwhile,
Ginny Weasley had received her own welcoming committee on her return
to the Gryffindor common room, in the shape of her best friend,
Hermione Granger who
fixed her with a questioning gaze."Have
you been out with him, all day?""Umm…yeah.""And?" "And
what?""What
have you been doing? I'm certain Professor Dumbledore noticed that
you were missing at lunch.""We
talked.""Talked?
For over six hours?""Yes.""But
what could you possibly have…""Oh
look! Neville's beating Ron," interrupted Ginny as she suddenly
strode purposefully across the common room. Hermione
trailed after her from near the portrait hole to the sofas by the
fire, where Ginny's brother, Ron was in the middle of a game of chess
with his dorm-mate, Neville Longbottom."Hey,
sis!" Ron called. "How was your day with Black?""Err…fine.""Good.""Is
that it?""Huh?""I've
just spent the whole day with a Slytherin, and all you can say is
'Good'?""What
did you expect? A rant about how Gryffindors are good and Slytherins
are evil?""Well…yes.""Life's
not like that, Ginny. Look, the last time I tried to protect you from
Black, I ended up with a broken nose for my trouble, and I had to
apologise to him, at which point he completely humbled me by agreeing
that protecting your
family was anoble
cause. This just after he's healed your ankle and carried you for
Merlin knows how far through a forest. It's hardly the actions of an
evil Death Eater wannabe, is it? Besides, since the Scabbers incident
in thesummer,
I've realised that life isn't so black and white. Slytherins don't
all grow up to be Death Eaters, and Gryffindors don't all become
heroes. I'll be seventeen in a little over a year – it's time to
start thinking like an adult, if I'm going to be one soon.""Who
are you and what have you done with my brother?""Ha
ha. Listen, Gin. You're a good judge of character. If you trust
Black, then that's good enough for me. But if he ever hurts you…""Yeah,
yeah, I know, you'll confront him and get your nose broken again!""Exactly,"
replied Ron, with a smile.Ginny
smiled back at her brother, before giving him a quick hug and
disappearing up the stairs to the girls' dormitories. Hermione had
silently watched the entire exchange between the siblings, and was
pleasantly surprised with the attitude that the previously hot-headed
boy had shown. As his attentions turned once again to the chessboard,
Hermione Granger sat and observed him, lost in thought.The
days and weeks passed at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.
Other engagements permitting, Harry and Ginny managed to meet every
Saturday, during which they would disappear into the Forbidden Forest
so that Ginny could continue learning Harry's way of using magic and
become more familiar with the fox and the phoenix. As the weeks went
by, Ginny's senses began to sharpen a little, thanks to the fox. From
the phoenix, Ginny's empathic side began to develop; honesty and
deceit, lies and truths and good and evil, soon became traits she
could recognise in a person.Wandless
magic progressed slowly for Ginny. It was hard to overcome years of
conditioning and completely change one's approach to magic use. By
the middle of October, she was successfully summoning her magic into
her hands. Unlike Harry's compact black sphere of swirling energy,
Ginny's magic was more free. It appeared as a handful of orange-red
flames, dancing and flickering above her palms.Within
the school, Harry's repeated use of the name Smallboy instead of
Malfoy was starting to catch on. Gradually, other members of theSlytherin
house had started to use the derogatory name when the blonde boy was
not around. Over time, habits formed and the name stuck within the
green and silver confines of the Common Room. Eventually, the
inevitable happened. During an argument with the young wizard in
question, Pansy Parkinson vindictively shouted out the nickname for
the entire Great Hall to hear, one evening during dinner. Needless to
say, use of the name spread like wildfire throughout the student
population, and every time Harry heard the word 'Smallboy' mentioned,
he allowed himself to smile. On those rare occasions when Draco had
been present and overheard the use of his nickname and had shouted
back 'It's MALFOY!' in response, Harry found it hard not to double
over with laughter, and he delighted in writing every detail in his
letters to Sirius.Harrymanaged
to spend time with Grace and Luna, by way of a study group that
quickly formed. Initially, it began with Harry and Ginny choosing to
study together in the library during the evenings, but it quickly
expanded to include both the Hufflepuff and the Ravenclaw. The
headmaster was particularly pleased when Madam Pince reported to him
about the four students from different houses studying together on a
regular basis. It was not long before Hermione joined the group. Her
desire to top each and every class drove her need to study alongside
the enigmatic boy who would sometimes best her.The
final member of the study group joined during October. After dinner
one evening, asHarry
was heading towards the Slytherin dungeon to collect his books, Ron
Weasley accosted him in the Entrance Hall."Black?
Can I talk to you for a moment?""Sure,"
Harry replied, before leading the taller boy out of the main doors
and out into the cool autumn evening. "Fire away, Weasley.""Look.
I know that you had something to do with my rat being an Animagus.
The moment you saw it you sent me into the house with Ginny so you
could talk to my father. Before I know it, he's giving me a book on
Animagi and teaching me the revealing spell.""And?
What's your point?""I
don't know why, but you let me and my family take all the credit for
capturing Pettigrew. I wanted to thank you.""Listen.
I may have given your father a few suggestions about a course of
action, but as far as I can tell, it was you and himwho
carried it all off. You deserve your praise; you set in motion things
that have affected me far more than you know, for which I thank you
greatly."Ron's
mouth twitched to a brief smile, before quickly fading to make room
for his solemn expression. "You
know, you really don't act like a Slytherin.""I'll
take that as a compliment, shall I?""I
mean…you're humble, modest. Ginny seems to really like you.""Ah
yes, your sister. I expected to be talking to you about her before
now.""She
trusts you, and I trust her. If she says you're OK, then you probably
are. There's certainly no evidence suggesting you're anything other
than a decent bloke.""Apart
from being a Slytherin!""I'm
trying to ignore that.""What
do you want, Weasley?""I
want to join your little group.""Why?""Honestly?""If
you lie I'll know it." For the first time, Harry looked right
into Ron's eyes, his green eyes catching in the moonlight. After a
few seconds, Ron looked away."I
want to see how you and Ginny are together. I want to keep an eye on
you.""Fair
enough. I told you once before, wanting to protect your family is
nothing to be ashamed of. Anything else?""Yeah.
You see, I like Hermione. Since she started studying with you I don't
see her so much. If I study with you, I'll get to spend more time
with her, and I might get smarter, and she might like me more because
of it.""Ron?"
For the first time, Harry used addressed Ron using his given name,
surprising the other boy. "You're a good guy. I don't mind at
all if you study with us. Want to start tonight?""Sure.
Thanks, Black." The pair headed back into the castle. As they
split off towards their respective Common
Rooms,
Harry called out."Call
me Adam."Before
Ron could respond, Harry had disappeared into the shadowy corridor
leading to the Slytherin domain. Ron plodded slowly towards the Fat
Lady, one single thought occupying his mind."I
just made friends with a Slytherin."The
final nail into the coffin containing Draco Malfoy's reputation came
duringa
Transfiguration lesson, towards the end of October. Harry had arrived
early and taken a place near the back of the class. For this lesson,
the Slytherins were paired with the Gryffindors, which only served to
increase the Death Eater in-training's humiliation further. As the
mix of red and green aligned students filed into the classroom, it
was Ron Weasley who took a seat beside Harry, to the surprise of the
majority of those already assembled. Draco Malfoy and Pansy Parkinson
were the last to arrive, as usual, but today, he
found his new nemesis sitting
in his usual place."You're
in my place, Black," hissed the blonde."Shove
off, Smallboy," called Ron, unable to hold in his temperament
where Malfoy was concerned. Having become a member of Harry's study
circle meant he was accustomed to using the less than complimentary
nickname."It's
Malfoy, Weasel! Though I suppose your family is
too poor to afford basic reading and writing lessons, isn't
it? Now
move. I always sit here.""Really,
Smallboy," Harry began, rounding
on him.
"You're 'it's my seat' whine really makes you sound like the
small boy that you are. Now be a good lad and toddle off somewhere
else."Ron
tried in vainto
suppress a snort of amusement at the overly patronising tone that
Harry used on Malfoy. In fact, most of the class were watching this
exchange; the Gryffindors with delight and the Slytherins, apart from
Pansy Parkinson, Crabbe and Goyle, with interest. Harry's tone was
one step too far for Draco and he lazily pulled out his wand."That's
the last time, Black. Nobody speaks to a Malfoy like that." Just
as the affronted Malfoy heir began to utter
an incantation,
Harry's right arm snapped out before anyone could react and snatched
the wand out of theother
boy's grasp. In one fluid motion, Harry tossed the wand over his
shoulder, and, as luck would have it, the twelve-inch long wooden
stick sailed straight out of anopen
window and fell four stories to the grass below. Draco had just made
it to the window to try
andlocate
his wand when Professor McGonagall marched into the classroom, her
stern countenance observed by everyone except the perpetually
obnoxious Slytherin."Take
your seat, Mr. Malfoy," called the highland tone of the austere
professor."Professor
McGonagall, Black threw…""Your
seat.""But
my wand…""TAKE
YOUR SEAT, MR. SMALLBOY!" yelled McGonagall, incensed that this
boy defied her for a second time.The
entire class looked at their teacher in surprise, although in the
case of one particular black-haired student, the shock quickly turned
to glee, albeit hidden behind a mask of Slytherin impassiveness.To
try and make amends for her slip, Professor McGonagall retrieved
Malfoy's wand using a
Summoning Charm,
before commencing her lesson as if nothing unusual had occurred.
Needless to say, by lunchtime it was all over the school that even
the teachers were now referring to the once-feared Slytherin Prince
as Draco Smallboy.A
few days after the now infamous McGonagall-Smallboy incident, Harry
was returning to the Slytherin Common Room a few minutes before
curfew, when he sensed his Head of House around the next corner."Good
evening, Professor Snape," Harry called as he approached. The
acerbic
teacher
stepped out from his hiding spot – a place he waited infor
late Slytherins to arrive so he could berate them – and masked his
annoyance at being discovered with a question, spoken in his usual
acidic tone."Out
a little late tonight, aren't we, Mr. Black?""Have
I breached a rule, Professor?" Harry asked in reply, knowing
full well that he hadn't. "I understood curfew to be at ten
o'clock.""Where
have you been, Black? Not consorting with Gryffindors I hope?""In
a manner of speaking, sir.""Explain
yourself.""I've
been assisting Professor Lupin, sir.""Assisting
Professor Lupin? I do hope that isn't a euphemism for serving
detention.""Of
course not, sir. If I were to do something that warranted a
detention, I would certainly not be stupid enough as to be caught. I
am not a Gryffindor." The Potions Master's steely façade
vaguely twitched at Harry's remark. Deciding to enhance his
reputation with his Head of House a little further, Harry continued,
"Actually, sir, I've been helping Professor Lupin brew the
Wolfsbane potion."Even
the veteran spy could not hide his surprise at hearing one of his
students claim to be brewing the most difficult of potions. All too
soon, however, Snape's emotionless mask was replaced."How
does a new student to the school, and a Slytherin at that, come to be
in the position of assisting an ex-Gryffindor Werewolf professor?"Harry
thought quickly. "I read a lot, Sir. I recognised certain signs
about Professor Lupin and confronted him with it, with the intention
of using his knowledge that I knew his secret to my advantage."
The Slytherin head of house nodded appreciatively."And
what exactly does your assistance entail?""Currently
I am preparing the ingredients. We will begin the actual brewing
process in a few days. The prepared ingredients are under a stasis
preservation charm, apart from the crushed cocoa beans. They need to
dry out a little.""The
Wolfsbane ingredients do not include cocoa beans, Black. Have you
been lying to me this whole time?""Of
course not, Professor. The cocoa beans, being inherently unmagical,
do not react with the magical ingredients. Thus allowing us to
improve the flavour of the potion, without affecting its potency.
After some experimentation, we managed to make the potion much more
palatable, by adding a faint chocolate taste.""Well,
Black. As fascinating as this subject is, it is now approaching
curfew. I will be corroborating your story with Lupin. I do trust he
is rewarding your assistance with house points?""Yes,
sir. Goodnight, sir."With
Halloween falling on Tuesday, the weekend prior was of course
allocated as a Hogsmeade weekend, allowing the student population to
stock up on seasonal sweets, joke
items and
for Ravenclaws, school supplies. Harry and Ginny maintained their
usual schedule, however, and chose to spend the Saturday in the
clearing in the Forbidden Forest. Under Harry's continued guidance
and encouragement, Ginny was improving her wandless magic skills,
although she remained able to gather a handful of magic, as yet she
could only use it to create fire of any colour.Whilst
Ginny practised, Harry concentrated on something his instinct told
him he should be able to achieve – conjuring shadow. For some
reason, Harry felt that shadow could be used to his advantage. After
a few hours of experimentation, Harry was able to use his raw magic
to create shaped blocks of shadow so dense and dark that they could
not be seen through. Harry's magical shadows
also seemed to work like a strange shield, in that anything passing
into the shadow was absorbed. Promising himself he would work on this
puzzling new skill again, Harry turned his attention to his beautiful
companion, who was now simply sprawled on the ground grooming her
phoenix."Gin,
do you have anything I can write on?""Um…probably,"
she began, whilst rummaging through her school bag. "What do you
want to write?""I
want to figure out some runes, but I can't remember them all in my
head.""Is
it to do with this black stuff you've been conjuring?""Yeah.
And it's shadow.""Shadow?""Yeah.
I had this nagging feeling when I woke up this morning that I should
be able to use shadows to do something magical. I've just been trying
a few things, but I need to make some notes on the runes that I've
been using.""I've
only got a weird old notebook.""That'll
do.""You'll
have to get it though. I'm not touching it.""Why
on earth not?""It's
evil.""How
can a notebook be evil?" Harry reached into Ginny's bag and
pulled out a black leather bound notebook. The letters TMR were
stamped on the front in faded gold leaf. Harry flicked through the
pages, but it had never been written in, which was strange, given the
battered condition of the thing."I
found it in amongst my stuff just before I started my first year, but
I never wrote anything in it because I always had this funny feeling
about it. I've tried throwing it away, or leaving it at the Burrow,
but it always ends up in my school bag.""OK,
now that is odd," Harry commented."Since
the start of the year, and, you know, the phoenix and stuff, I just
know that there's something evil about it. It's almost as if it's
alive in some way. Damn, I must sound crazy, talking about a book
that's alive and evil.""Ginny,
if there's one thing I know, it's that if a phoenix says something
is evil, then it's evil. With what you said about it suddenly
appearing and not being able to leave it behind, it
makes it look very dodgy.I
think we should definitely destroy it.""But
how?""Well,
what's the thing you're best at?""Quidditch?""No.
Fire. But think about it, the fire you create is the pure fire of a
phoenix. It's got to be worth a try.""I
suppose you're right. Toss it over there…""NO!
I mean. Hold on. We can't burn it on the grass, that'll damage the
ground…"Hidden
in the same place as before, two pairs of eyes watched the teenagers
as they prepared to destroy the strange old black
book.
Eyes that had watched Harry and Ginny each and every time they had
ventured into the clearing and spent time learning about each other
and themselves. They watched as the black-haired boy attracted and
cared for theinjured
animals and birds that seemed drawn into the clearing despite the
perpetual presence of Harry's predatory protectors, the panther, the
wolf and the snake. The eyes watched in amazement as the flame-haired
girl commanded a phoenix, the epitome of all that is good, as if it
were an extension of her self."Surely
we have seen enough?""Would
you raise the Council with what we have witnessed so far?""Even
when the sun falls below the trees, and long shadows cover the girl
like a grey blanket, she still glows like a burning flame in the
darkest night. And in the brightest of days, the boy all but
disappears when the shadow of a tree crosses his path. Yes, I have
seen enough to summon the Elders.""Do
as you wish. These children fascinate me. I will watch them further.""Very
well, Firenze. I will begin the process. On the eve of the Winter
Solstice, we shall present our observations to the Council of
Elders.""Travel
safe, Magorian."Whilst
the centaurs were busy discussing the humans they had been observing
for the past two months, Harry had created a disc of shadow, about
two feet across. From about six feet away, he levitated the enigmatic
diary and held it in place above the disc. Ginny, began to summon her
raw, flaming magic into her hands."Well
then, Adam. Here goes nothing!"Concentrating
on generating as much heat as she could muster, a jet of orange
flames shot
out ofher
fingers and engulfed the accursed book. At first, it seemed to absorb
the fire, but slowly and steadily, as Ginny focused her mind on the
purity of the phoenix, on the cleansing power of its flame, the black
leather cover began to burn. As the pages inside started to blacken
and curl, a thick grey smoke poured skywards from the fire. Within
it, a twisted, distorted face seemed to appear in the billowing
plume. The silent face screamed in apparent agony before dissipating
barely a second later. Within a few moments, all that remained under
Harry's levitation were ashes, which he quickly allowed to fall into
the shadow disc. Dispelling the disc, there was not
a trace
of the evil
book left,
although, many miles away, a man dressed in black robes, with strange
red eyes shivered for a moment before returning to the ancient tome
he was reading.As
Harry dispelled the shadow, Ginny collapsed down onto the
transfigured blanket. Seeing his companion was distressed, Harry
immediately rushed to her side."Are
you OK?""I
will be. Whatever that was, it fought me. The evil in that book, it
felt like a piece of someone's soul, and it was fighting back at me,
screaming in pain.""Really?
That's odd. I might have to talk to Remus about that. Let's have some
chocolate. It'll make you feel better." Harry took a bar of
Honeydukes' finest from the picnic they had brought with them.
Thanks to her twin brothers, Ginny had been introduced to the
Hogwarts kitchens and the ever-so obliging House Elves who worked
there. It seemed the helpful little elves kept a stock of treats for
their favourite students.Ginny's
phoenix appeared in a burst of flame beside the two teens, but Ginny
wasn't alert enough to realise that she hadn't consciously summoned
it. The firebird crooned a calming song over the troubled girl. After
a few minutes, the combination of chocolate and song had soothed
Ginny out of her worries."Thank
you for helping me do that, Adam," Ginny said quietly.Harry
gently took hold of Ginny's hands, as they sat face to face. "Ginny,
I'll always be around to help you with stuff. You know that. I
promise I'll always be by your side when you need me. I'll always be
in your heart and in your mind. We are kindred, brought together by a
common cause. We will face our fears together and battle our demons
together. This is my promise.""Did
you see that?""See
what?"Ginny
looked excited as she looked down at their entwined hands. "Our
hands. While you were talking our hands started glowing.""They
did? I was too busy staring into your eyes to
notice.""Yup.
There was a definite golden glow.""Huh.
I guess my sentimental rambling
had more of animpact
than I thought.""What
do you mean?""Well,
all I meant to do was make a solemn promise, but it seems I
unwittingly entered us into some kind of magical bond.""A
bond?""Yeah.
Have you ever been to a wizarding wedding?" Ginny shook her
head."No,
me neither, but I've read about it. When the couple make their
promises, a magical bond is formed between them; the greater the
bond, the bigger the glow. Since ours was a small one, I guess our
bond isn't as big as a wedding bond, or anything like that, but after
everything I said we're now bound to each other. I hope you're not
mad at me. I
can'tbelieve
I was so careless."Ginny
looked deep into Harry's eyes. "Adam, of course I'm not mad.
You're the one person I trust more than anyone else in the world. Why
would I be mad at you? Besides, it's not like we don't like each
other, right?"Returning
her gaze, Harry saw hope in the eyes of the beauty in front of him,
while he himself felt his stomach leap at her words."Right,"
he whispered in reply.The
pair made a quiet and thoughtful return to the castle, carefully
slotting into the trickle of students making their way back after
spending their parents' money in the shops of Hogsmeade.





--------




Well
folks, here's the seventh chapter. It's the longest of the entire
story, and has a bit more action in it. I hope you enjoy reading,
please let me know. A million hugs to SNB.Chapter
7: In which things go awry in HogsmeadeWith
plenty of time to kill before dinner, Harry returned to the Slytherin
Common Room and immediately headed towards the suite of seats by the
fireplace. Malfoy was in residence, holding court with several of the
more impressionable Slytherin females. Pansy Parkinson was sitting
on the arm of Draco's chair, as usual. The seat opposite Draco was
free and Harry sat down, quite unconcerned that Draco had stopped his
insipid drawling and the girls had ceased simpering. All eyes, in
fact, had turned to the black-haired boy."Something
we can help you with, Black?" Draco asked coldly."I
doubt it. Don't
mind me.""Actually,
Black, I've been meaning to ask you something." Draco was trying
hard to sound confident in front of the person who continually
managed
to outsmart
him. "Where do you stand on the blood issue?" Draco smirked
at those around him. Black was notoriously tight-lipped about his own
personal opinions and loyalties. By asking him outright, Draco would
either find an ally in the pureblood cause, or uncover a Mudblood
sympathiser, who would quickly be shunned by the Slytherin
fraternity."I
wondered how long it would take before someone asked me this.""And?"
demanded Draco. "What's your position?"The
crowd of witnesses to this conversation had surreptitiously grown, as
word had spread like wildfire aboutwhat
Malfoy had asked the enigmatic Black."Blood
is extremely important," Harry began, butDraco
quickly interrupted him."And
why is that?""Isn't
it obvious?""Yes,
Black, to some of us it is. But for the benefit of those here who are
not completely convinced, why don't you spell it out for them?"
Draco's increasing confidence that this situation was going exactly
as planneddid
not prepare him for what his nemesis said next."Blood
is important because it carries oxygen from the lungs around the
body. If we didn't have blood, we would die." The assembled
crowd reacted with a mixture of gasps, chuckles and stunned silence.
Some of
them whispered dubiously amongst each other, and Harry was sure he
heard some one say, "Really?"It
took a moment for Draco's brain to comprehend what had just been
said. There was no statement of support for blood purity and no
opposition to it either – just something weird about oxygen and
lungs. After a few seconds, Draco was able to respond."WHAT?""Really,
it's basic human physiology…""ARGH!"
cried Draco in frustration. "No, Black. Blood purity. What do
you think about blood purity?""Why
didn't you say that in the first place?" Harry cast a sideways
glance and caught a glimpse of Blaise Zabini, who was trying
heroically to restrain his mirth. "To be honest, I couldn't care
less."Harry's
unconcerned remark clearly infuriated the Pureblood Prince, and his
hand seemed to be reaching inside his pocket."I
despise you, Black.
You're an annoying, little…"Moving
faster than any of the onlookers believed was possible, Harryleapt
out of his seat, and had his wand pointed at the blonde boy's neck
before he could utter another word."I
suggest," hissed Harry, his
voicebarely
louder than a whisper. "That you keep your opinions to yourself,
and stay out of my way. OK?"Malfoy
wisely decided to nothing except nod his head slightly.A
broad grin was painted across Ginny's face as she made her way back
down the staircase leading
from her dormitory. Amazingly, she had managed to enter the
Gryffindor Common Room and make it upstairs without being accosted by
any of her friends or brothers. The smile on her face was
eye-catching, however, and it was barely a moment before
Hermione's sharp eyes noticed her."Ginny!"
the older girl called from her position
near the fireplace.
Ginny wandered across to her and sat down. Neville and Ron sitting
down on the rug before the fire, with a game of Exploding Snap
between them."So
what's got you looking so happy?" Hermione asked."Two
things, actually.""Which
are?""Well,
first of all, I have a date tomorrow, with Adam.""Haven't
you been dating Adam for weeks?" piped up Ron, who was currently
sporting a slightly singed eyebrow.""No.
Tomorrow will be our first." "So
what have you been doing every Saturday since the start of term?"
he asked,
trying very hard to keep his tone casual, rather than accusatory."Talking
mostly, and practicing spells. Adam's been a really big help."
Ginny had been waiting weeks for this question to be asked by one of
her close friends, and she had her answer ready. It wasn't the entire
truth, but it wasn't a lie either, for she wasn't prepared to lie
outright to the people she cared about."So
what's the other reason you're so chipper?" Hermione asked,
bringing the conversation back to
the previous
topic."Adam
said that he liked me," Ginnysquealed,
bouncing in her seat,
before making a little squeal and bouncing in her seat."Really?"
responded Hermione. "That's great!" The bushy-haired girl
was grinning, too, now. "He's so clever. You're so lucky.""I
don't get it," Ron stated from his position on the floor. "If
he didn't like you, he wouldn't be spending all this time with you,
would he? Why the big fuss? It's not like he proposed to you or
anything.""Ronald
Weasley, you have the emotional range of a boiled potato,"
admonished Hermione."Ron,
mate, let me explain," said Neville calmly. Three pairs of eyes
turned to the usually quiet boy in surprise. "You like mashed
potatoes, right?""Yeah.
I like mashed potatoes. So what?" "And
you like Hermione, don't you?""I
hardly see what that's got to do with…""Just
answer the question, Ron."The
red-haired boy looked up brieflyat
the girl sitting
above him on the sofa. "Alright. Yes, I like Hermione."Hermione,
who was also now grinning like a Cheshire cat, said nothing, and
waited
for Neville to finish his explanation."So,
Ron. You like mashed potatoes and Hermione just the same, do you?""Well,
no, of course not." "So,
you like mashed potatoes, but you like
Hermione.""Right.""So
now do you understand?""Err…"Harry
had eaten his dinner while Naomi
Crabbe filled him in on the latest school gossip.
Most of what she had to say was of little interest to
him, but
he was pleased to hear the girl mention that Professor Lupin was very
popular with the First Years.Harry's
circle of friends did not study together on Saturdays,
so he
was intending on heading back to his dormitory to do some reading. As
he made
his way across
the Entrance Hall, Ron Weasley approached him, wanting to talk. After
finding an empty classroom, Ron started the conversation."I
hear you and Ginny are going on a date tomorrow.""Well,
I wouldn't call it a date. We're onlygoing
to Hogsmeade together…""Ginny's
under the impression that it's your first date. She came down the
stairs earlier looking like the Seeker whocaught
the snitch.""Oh.""Maybe
her excitement also has something to do with you telling her that you
like her.""Of
course I like her. I wouldn't hang out with her practically
everyday if I didn't like her.""Yeah,
but Ginny thinks that you like
her."Harry,
who was brilliant when it came to magic and spells, simply had no
idea what to make of the way girls' minds worked. He frowned at
Ron.
"You're going to have to explain what on Earth you're going on
about.""OK.
I like mashed potatoes, right?""Err…
if you say so.""But
I like
Hermione. Do you see the difference?""Yes,
Ron, I think I do. Are you saying that when I told Ginny that I liked
her, or words to that effect, she thinks I meant like
rather than just like.""So?
Do you like
her?" Ron
prompted him. "I'm
not going to make the mistake of going all big brother on you, but
just remember, there are six of us.""Thanks
for the reminder, Ron. But to answer your question – I don't know.
I've no experience of this sort of thing.""Well
then, I suggest you figure itout
before morning. Ginny's pretty excited, you know."As
Harry's mind started to deliberate over the slightly strange but
informative discussion, Ron slipped quietly out of the quiet
classroom, leaving the other boy alone with his thoughts. Harry
sensed
Ron's absence a few moments later, and he, too, left the room and
decided to retire
to the comfort of his bed, but he didn't get any reading done. After
several hours of silentintrospection,
Harry came to a realisation; he really did like
Ginny Weasley, and from the sound of things, maybe she liked
him, too.Harry
and Ginny met in the Entrance Hall after breakfast the
next morning.
The pair strolled casually along the cinder path that led out of
Hogwarts' grounds and towards the quaint wizarding village of
Hogsmeade. Most
of the students usually visited the village on Saturdays, so a few of
them were scattered around the village today, which gave Ginny and
Harry enough privacy to talk freely as they walked."I
had an interesting conversation with Ron last night," Harry
told herGinny
groaned. "He
didn't go all 'Big brother' on you, did he?""Not
really. I think one broken nose is enough. He did say some things
that got me thinking though.""Really?
Like what?""Things
about us, Ginny. What we're doing today, what our relationship is
becoming.""Oh.""Look,
I'm just going to be really honest with you, OK?"Ginny
didn't reply, but nodded at him briefly before looking stoically
ahead."He
told me that you thought we were going on a date, and how happy you
were because I'd said that I liked you. I've had only one friend my
own age until I came to Hogwarts. I didn't
know the difference between two friends going to the same place
together and two people going on a date. Until yesterday, liking
something was a simple concept. You like someone
or you don't. I never once considered that us going to Hogsmeade
together today was a date, and when I inferred yesterday that I like
you, I thought I was saying that I like you. Not that I like
you.""Oh,
my God. Did you get the mashed potatoes and Hermione speech?""It's
a fine speech, Ginny, and it got me thinking. When
you said that we liked each other yesterday, I agreed with you, not
knowing what you really meant. But now that I know, I'm certainly
very happy about it.
I do
want this to be a date. And I do like
you.""And
how do you feel about mashed potatoes?" asked Ginny with a
smile."Let
me put it this way; I can imagine my life without mashed potatoes."They
wandered throughthe
streets of Hogsmeade, Ginny pointing out where all the different
shops were. Harry had been here once with Sirius and Remus when he
was younger, but couldn't really remember much. The weak autumn
sunshine warmed their faces as they strolled carelessly from the
Shrieking Shack, at one end of the village, to the rocky hillside
that stretched out as far as the eye could see at the end of
Hogsmeade.After
making a
stop at the Three Broomsticks for a couple of warm Butterbeers,
Harry and Ginny had retired
toa
spot on the hillside where they could sit and enjoy the picnic they
had brought along.
A short while later, both had eaten their fill of sandwiches, fruit
ad cakes. Ginny carefully and slowly packed all the plates and boxes
back into the picnic basket they used, before using her wand to
shrink it down and put it in her
pocket. She lay down on her side, next to the messy-haired boy who
was already relaxing beside her on the conjured blanket."Adam?"
Ginny asked tentatively."Yes,
Ginny?""Do
you want to kiss me?""I…"
Harry began, but he stopped almost immediately and cocked his head as
if straining to hear something."What
is it?""People
are apparating into Hogsmeade…Come on!"The
pair scrambled down the hillside towards the village, balancing the
need to hurry with taking cover behind rocks and boulders as they
descended the hill. When they were close enough for Harry's avian
eyesight to see, he stopped and ducked behind a large rock, pulling
Ginny to his side. He quickly waved a hand and a scrap of paper and a
pencil appeared on the grass. As he scribbled a note, a black falcon
materialised in the air to Harry's left. It grabbed the scrap and
took off at full speed towards the castle. Glancing
at Ginny, Harry saw a question in her eyes."A
warning to Dumbledore. There are Death Eaters in the village."Ginny
gasped. "What are we going to do?""We'll
try and make our way back to the castle, using the back alleys and
side streets. If absolutely necessary, we'll have to use your
phoenix, but that'll be a last resort. Agreed?""Agreed.""Come
on, then. We'll head to the back of the first building, on the right
side of the main street."Professor
Dumbledore had enjoyed his lunch in the Great Hall immensely. He had
just returned to his office, intent on completingsome
paperwork while letting his salt beef salad digest, when a black
falcon darted in through the window that was always left open for
owls to come in and depart. Recognising the unusual bird as the one
Adam Black used to send a message to Ginny Weasley, the old professor
was a little surprised that it should fly into his office,
considering
his past dispute with the boy.
This train of thought was quickly forgotten as Dumbledore read the
note that had been clutched in the bird's talons.Death Eaters
attacking Hogsmeade.ABFollowing
the resurgence of Voldemort, Dumbledore had wisely implemented
emergency procedures should certain events occur. For this
eventuality, he could alert all members of the Order of the Phoenix
using rings enhanced with a Protean charm, which he did without a
moment's delay. Included in the alert code transmitted to the
members' rings, was the muster point, which
was,in
this case, the Hogwarts main gate.As
the Headmaster hurrieddown
the spiral stairs that led from his office, his magically enhanced
voice boomed throughout the castle."All
students are to return to their dormitories immediately. All staff
report to the Entrance Hall."Within
seven minutes, three quarters of the staff of Hogwarts School of
Witchcraft and Wizardry were zooming on broomsticks, which
were
located by the main doors for this very purpose, towards the village
of Hogsmeade. At the school gate, the staff met with those Order
members who had been able to answer the call, and the group set off
together towards the normally peaceful village, hoping they were in
time to prevent too much damage.By
the time the Order of the Phoenix and Hogwarts teachers were heading
into the village, Ginny and Harry had managed to begin creeping along
the back streets towards Hogwarts. Luck, however, was not on the
pair's side, as they turned one corner to suddenly find themselves
staring at a wizard in a black cloak and white mask laughing
manically as he held a defenceless old man under the torturing curse."Oh,
God!" Ginny couldn't help herself from crying out at the
horrific scene in front of her. The bloodied and broken man banged
helplessly against a wall as his twitching limbs thrashed
uncontrollably. Hearing Ginny's whimper, the Death Eater broke the
curse and wheeled around to face Harry and Ginny."Well,
well, well. Two young children to play with," leered the masked
man."S...Stay
away from us," said Harry defiantly."I
don't think so, little boy.""Dumbledore's
coming!" Ginny blurted out in desperation."Is
he really, pretty girl? We had
better hurry along, then. Diffindo!"The
man suddenly threw a cutting curse towards Harry, who instinctively
blocked it with a wandlessly-cast shield, which caught the Death
Eater by surprise. The pair of teens was too dumbstruck to take
advantage of their aggressors pause, however, and he quickly
continued his offensive, sending a Cruciatus
at Harry this time, forcing him to dive to one
side. The spell sailed through the air where he
had been standing.
Using his feline-like agility, Harry's dive became a graceful roll,
but his forced evasion gave the Death Eater time to cast another
spell, this time at Ginny."Imperio!"Ginny
was a bit too slow to cast a shield around her,andthe
magic washed over her,
like waves on a beach. Yet, she felt no difference;
there were no feelings of compulsion."Attack
the boy!" the Death Eater commanded."Hell
no!" cried Ginny, who had suddenly been galvanised into action
by the outrageous suggestion that she should attack Harry."IMPERIO!"
cried Voldemort's servant once more, but again the magic had no
affect on Ginny, who could feel the influence of the phoenix keeping
her mind safe from the
assault.Harry
had regained his place by at Ginny's side. He
slipped a hand through hers, and squeezed it gently."We
have to get out of here," he whispered to her, as their
eyes watched the Death Eater, who was considering his next move."Should
we use…you know?"Harry
didn't have time to answer, as their attacker made a decisive move."Play
time's over, kiddies. Which one of you first? Hmm? The boy, I think.
AV…"As
the words of the Killing curse began to form on the Death Eater's
lips, instinct took over in both of the teens. Ginny's wand snapped
up to point at their would-be killer, and Harry's hands shot out in
front of him, palms facing outwards. For the three protagonists, time
seemed to come to a near stop, as the scene played out in slow
motion."ADA…"Flame
burst from Ginny's wand tip and screamed through the air, burning
with an intensity and purity that could only be created by one of
good heart. A swirling, black jet of shadow arced from Harry's open
hands."KE…"As
the paths of the jet of shadow and burst of fire converged, about
half way between the young pair and their assailant, the two streams
intertwined, twisting about each other as they sped towards their
target.The
Death Eater, seeing this inexplicably black tinged fire shooting
towards him, aborted his casting of the killing curse, instead
yelling out a shielding spell."PROTEGO!"The
shield shimmered in placea
fraction of a second before the shadow-laced flame reached it.
Startling
both Harry and Ginny, their combined spell tore through the Death
Eater's shield like a knife slicing through flesh. The shadow and
fire struck the man full in the chest, knocking him back into a wall
and quickly engulfing his cloak. Crying out in despair and agony, the
man who had chosen a dark path, a path in servitude of an evil
master, quickly died a most unpleasant death.Aurors
Kingsley Shacklebolt and Nymphadora Tonks, having received the coded
warning via their Order of the Phoenix rings, had alerted their
fellow Aurors, and their forces, combined with the
Hogwarts staff and otherOrder
members, quickly overwhelmed the two dozen or so low-ranking Death
Eaters that had descended on Hogsmeade. Seventeen had been taken into
Ministry custody, while the rest had managed to either Disapparate or
Portkey away, like the cowards they wereWhen
the fighting ceased, injured civilians and Aurors were taken to St.
Mungo's for treatment and recuperation,
while a few staff and Order members headed for the school's hospital
wing, and the skilful ministrations of Poppy Pomfrey. Those who
remained, including Dumbledore, split up to search through the
village for
previously unidentified casualties.It
was the search team of Remus Lupin and Minerva McGonagall which came
across a scene they had not at
allexpected
to find. As they turned the corner at the end of a side road into an
alley that ran behind a row of houses, they were immediately struck
by the lingeringstench
of burned flesh. Looking around for the source of the smell, they
first found an old man lying face down at the bottom of a wall. It
was clear to both professors that he was dead – most likely from
over-exposure to the torturing curse. Further along the alley, they
found what they were looking for.Slumped
against another
wall, was
a
different
corpse. The remains of a black cloak and the blackened edges of a
white mask revealed that this body belonged to a Death Eater. It
wasn't just the cloak that seemed to be burned,
but all the man's clothes were singed
to some degree, but most disturbing of all, was the huge round scorch
mark on the deceased's
chest.It
was almost a perfect circle, about ten inches across. Where the jet
of flame and shadow had struck, the man's chest now had a shallow
crater that was blackened and charred. The flesh and muscle had burnt
through, leaving the ends of scorched ribs visible in the dark,
bloody mess. It took all of Professor McGonagall's stern countenance
not to give in to the desire to bring up her lunch. Around the
extremity of the burned-out crater, tiny black and red flames
continued to dance and flicker. They weren't burning the man any
longer, just remaining in place, almost like a message, or a calling
card.Entranced
by the disgusting scene in front of them, neither professor noticed
the pair of students clinging to each other, about fifteen yards up
the alley, sitting on upturned crate. It was not until Ginny retched,
that Remus and Professor McGonagall looked up and saw them. Running
ahead of his more senior colleague, Remus reached the pair first,
and, avoiding the pools of vomit that stained the ground, crouched
down in front of them.Ginny
was sobbing desperately into Harry's shoulder, evidently distraught
by what had occurred. Tracks of dried tears adorned her cheeks,
which, like the rest of her face, were paler than normal. In
contrast, Harry's face was a mask of dispassionate stoicism, his
emerald eyes shining brightly and alertly, as his animal instincts
forced him to protect his mate."Adam?"
whispered Remus. "What happened?""He
attacked us. We killed him," Harry responded, equally quietly."Mr.
Black, Ms. Weasley," called Professor McGonagall, as she caught
up with her colleague. "Are you hurt at all?""No,
Professor. We're not," Harry replied, coolly."Then
we must get you back to the school. It looks like Ms. Weasley could
use a visit to the hospital wing. Professor Lupin, see that they get
there.""I
will," Remus stated without looking at the senior teacher, who
strode away to report what they had found to Dumbledore."Remus?"
said Harry, tentatively."What
is it, Adam?""I
need some time alone with Ginny. There is something that will help
her, but we need to go to a particular place.""Adam,
you're putting me in a difficult position.""I
don't care, Remus," Harry stated defiantly. "I can help her
better than the school nurse can, and I won't let you stop me.""What
are you going to do?""I
can't say. It has to do with animals, OK? You know what I mean?"Remus
sighed and nodded in resignation. "Very
well, Adam. You have one hour. Professor McGonagall will tell
Dumbledore, and Ginny's parents will be contacted.""Thank
you, Remus."After
watching his guardian return to the bodies of the Death Eater and the
old man, Harry turned his attention to the girl who was clinging to
him like her life depended on it."Ginny...Gin?"She
pulled away from him a
little,
just enough to look up into his eyes."You
heard what he said?" She nodded slightly, but said nothing. "I
want to go to the clearing. You need to hear your phoenix sing. It
will calm you
downmore
than anything else will."Once
again, she nodded slowly, signalling her agreement. "What about
Professor Lupin?" she whispered, speaking for the first time
since they had killed the Death Eater."He's
busy with the bodies. And even if someonedoes
notice our
absence,
he won't tell anyone about
us. He's
my guardian, remember? Let's go quickly, before anyone else comes
to see the bodies."Fifteen
yards away, Remus Lupin had been looking once more at the perpetual
ring of tiny flames that were still burning on the dead man's chest.
Suddenly, out of the corner of his eye, there were two quick flashes
from where Harry and Ginny had been sitting. By
the time he had turned his head to look,
the pair was gone.Ginny's
phoenix brought the pair to the clearing in the Forbidden Forest,
where they came each Saturday to talk and practice their various
skills. Harry quickly conjured blankets for them to sit on, before
guiding Ginny to the ground."The
phoenix is a part of you, Ginny. You need to command it to sing."With
no outward sign that she had even heard his words, Ginny willed the
bird to sing. She asked for a song of comfort, and the Phoenix
responded with a soothing lament, that calmed the red-head's
turbulent thoughts. For ten minutes, the bird sang and Ginny let the
beautiful sound wash over her, cleansing her of the harrowing images
that plagued her mind. Harry sat silently, listening to the trill of
the phoenix, taking comfort from the soothing effect it had on Ginny.
Surprisingly, it did little for Harry, but then, his soul was not
troubled by what had transpired, butmerely
by the impact it
hadon
the girl he cared for so deeply.As
the phoenix's melody came to a conclusion, Ginny stroked the soft red
feathers on the bird's head and long neck."Adam?""Yes,
Ginny?""Why
aren't you upset by what we did? Why don't you care that we killed a
man?"Harry
paused before answering her question. He had been thinking about
this, while they had been listening to the phoenix song "I do
care, Gin. I care tremendously, but only because it has upset you so
much. Why I'm not bothered for myself, well, I think it's because of
my animals.""What
do you mean?""Think
about what they are; wolf, panther, falcon, snake and spider.
Predators. Hunters. Each one kills in order to survive. I guess
that's why I don't feel bad. Something threatened me, us, and we
killed it. Call it survival instinct, or whatever you want, but I'm
not going to feel bad for killing something that would have killed me
and you had we given it the chance." Harry paused again, and
looked at Ginny, hoping he wouldn't find repulsion in her eyes. "It's
not what I would have chosen, Ginny, it really isn't. You do
understand that, don't you? I didn't enjoy it. Please tell me you
believe that.""Yes,
Adam, I do believe you, and I think I do understand. I just can't
help being overwhelmed by the thought that I killed someone.""The
fox is a scavenger mainly, although they will kill to survive if they
have to. The phoenix must have a much stronger influence on you than
the fox, for you to feel this way. The phoenix is a symbol of all
that is good and pure…""And
I feel dirty and disgusted and anything but those things."
Ginny's head dropped and she looked down into her lap. "I'm a
killer.""NO!"
Harry cried, falling to his knees in front of her. "No. You
fought for your life and survived. Voldemort is a killer. Grindelwald
was a killer. That man we killed was a killer. You defended yourself
the best way you could. Answer me this: is a Healer who ends the
suffering of a patient a killer? A killer chooses to be that way,
chooses a life of hate and destruction. You are anything but that."Ginny's
phoenix began to sing once again, almost as if it hadunderstood
Harry's words and wanted to voice
her agreement."The
very fact that you've reacted this way shows that you are still
inherently good and pure," continued Harry. The phoenix song
echoed around the clearing and slowly, Ginny's head began to lift and
a small smile formed on her lips. "What is it, Ginny?""The
phoenix song – I can understand it. She's telling me that she
agrees with what you said. That I'm still pure, that she still wants
to be a part of me.""So
you're going to be OK?""Yes,
Adam. I'll be OK. I expect it'll take a little while, but thanks to
you, and her, I'm already starting to come to terms with what I've
done.""Good.
Come on, we need to get back to the castle, before Remus gets it in
the neck from McGonagall."As
it happened, Remus was waiting for the two youngsters just outside
the main doors to castle."Thank
you for doing as I asked Adam, and coming back within an hour. Now,
if anyone
asks,
instead of coming straight back here, I took you somewhere we could
talk about what had happened, OK?""I
won't lie, Professor," Ginny responded quickly. "If I'm
asked, I'll explain that you allowed us some time alone to talk, but
I won't lie for you. I'm sorry.""What
about you, Adam?""I
agree with Ginny entirely. We are not going to apologise for dealing
with our issues in a way that is best for us.""Very
well, then. I just hope Professor McGonagall understands.""Remus,
there's nothing and
no onein
this castle that could keep us somewhere we didn't want to be, and Ihave
no problem with making the old man aware of it ifnecessary."The
werewolf was taken aback by the vehemence of his young charge's
words, but he had learned long ago not underestimate what Harry could
do. "Let's hope it doesn't come to that. Shall we…?"Remus
led the way through the corridors to the hospital wing. Madam Pomfrey
was busy tending to those who
had beenwounded
in the village, so the three new arrivals loitered around near the
entrance. Eventually, the matron bustled over to them, looking
flustered and tired."Professor
McGonagall informed me you were on your way, although she led me to
believe you would be here before now. Still, you're here now, so
let's have a look at you." The old nurse shooed Harry and Ginny
to neighbouring beds, and Ginny climbed onto one without thought.
Harry, on the other hand, stood by her side rather than take the bed
to which he had assigned."Mr.
Black, would you please…?" The nurse trailed off as she made
the mistake of looking to the boy's eyes."Ginny
first," he commanded, and the old witch gave her head a quick
shake, before tearing her gaze away from the fierce green eyes and
attending to the girl on the bed before her.After
performing a few quick diagnostic spells, the nurse was quick to make
her prognosis. "Miss Weasley, you have no physical damage. Why
did Professor McGonagall insist that you visit me?"Ginny
was about to respond when Remus interrupted. "Actually, Poppy,
these two have suffered a somewhat traumatic experience this
afternoon. I think Minerva wondered if some Dreamless Sleep might be
in order.""Well,
Miss Weasley. You are one of the few
mature enough students whoseopinion
I will take into account. Do you want a potion?"Ginny
thought for a moment, looking at Harry for reassurance. Seeing a
slight smile on his lips, and the faintest of nods, she agreed. "Yes,
Madam Pomfrey, I would like that.""Very
well. What about you, Mr. Black?" The matron turned to face the
black haired boy, although she was careful not to look into his eyes
this time. "Do you require something to help you sleep?""No.
I do not.""As
you wish. Wait here, Miss Weasley." Madam Pomfrey scurried to
her office, at the far end of the infirmary, before quickly returning
with a tiny vial. "Take this when you go to bed. Drink all of it
and return the vial tomorrow." She handed Ginny the small glass
container, before hurrying off to her next patient, all the while
grumbling about stubborn Slytherins."Come,
you two. We need to go to see the headmaster. Ginny, I expect your
parents are waiting for you." Remus' words, although gently
spoken, nevertheless resurrected the uncertainty in Ginny's mind over
hers' and Harry's earlier actions."I'm
not sure if I can face them," Ginny whispered to Harry, as she
swung her legsoff
ofthe
hospital bed."Remember
all those things we spoke about.
Think of the phoenix's song. Sing it in your head; remember how it
made you feel. If a phoenix continues to accept you, then your
parents surely will." Harry whispered these words of comfort
into Ginny's ear as they followed Remus out of the hospital wing and
into the hallowed halls of the ancient school."Thank
you," she whispered in return.Walking
close together, Ginny and Harry's hands brushed. As their armsnext
swung past each other, Harry's larger hand clasped onto Ginny's
smaller, delicate one, and held it protectively. After several
minutes winding through the passages and corridors, the group of
three arrived at the stone gargoyles that guarded the entrance to the
Headmaster's domain.Stopping
to give the password, Remus glanced at Harry and Ginny. Noticing
their joined hands, he threw Harry a quick look that clearly said
they would be discussing things later. Ginny was politely encouraged
to be first up the moving spiral staircase, after the
gargoyles had allowed them past.
The history professor held Harry back long enough to whisper to him."And
don't think I didn't hear you mention a phoenix."All
too soon, however, Harry and Ginny were standing
outside the door to Albus Dumbledore's study. More than prepared to
face up to whoever was inside, Harry confidently opened the door and
stepped into the office, Ginny and Remus trailing in behind him."It
is considered polite to knock before entering a private office,
Black," came a sneering voice from a corner of the room.Failing
to acknowledge his Head of House, Harry addressed his reply directly
to the Headmaster, who was sitting in his customary position, behind
the
large oak desk. "Forgive me, Headmaster. I was under the
impression that we were expected.""Indeed
you were, Black," a stern Scottish voice intoned from another
corner. "And some time ago as well.""Headmaster,
I will happily discuss with you the events of earlier today. But
first, may I ask if Ginny's parents are here? I believe they would
want to see her as soon as possible.""Very
well, Mr. Black. Miss Weasley, please come with me. Your parents are
through this doorway, in my antechamber." The headmaster rose
from his chair and guided Ginny around his desk towards a door that
neither of the two children had previously noticed. Pausing before
she stepped through the doorway, Ginny looked back at Harry, who
spoke just one word."Remember!"
She gave him a small smile, and stepped resolutely through the
door andinto
the second room.Harry
remained standing when
Professor Dumbledore resumed
his seatbehind
is desk. Remus stood behind Harry, while Snape and McGonagall
remained in their positions, on opposite sides of the Headmaster's
office."Please
sit down, Mr. Black," said the Headmaster, although it was more
of a command than a polite offer, to which Harry complied. "Now
then, perhaps you would be so kind as to explain the events that
transpired in Hogsmeade earlier."Harry
was about to begin, when the surly Potions master interjected."Headmaster,
may I enquire as to the presence of Professor Lupin? It is Professor
McGonagall and myself who are responsible for the two students in
question."It
was Harry who spoke in front of both Dumbledore and McGonagall this
time. "Actually, Professor Snape, Remus is one of my guardians.
Had he not already been here, I would have requested his presence.""And
I suppose that no-good mongrel Sirius Black is your other guardian,
is he?" Snape replied with a sneer.Harry
turned to face his Head of House, his eyes bright with anger. "I
believe, sir, that it is poor form to insult an ancient and noble
wizarding house.""Poor
form?" Snape responded derisively. "What are you going to
do, Black? Duel me here in the Headmaster's office? I'd like to see
you…" Snape wasn't
given the chance to utterthe
last word of his sentence. In the same way he had dealt with Malfoy
the night before, Harry had moved across the room and had his wand in
Snape's neck before anyone else could react, although the Potion
Master's wand was soon in has hand as well."I
wouldn't waste my breath," whispered Harry menacingly. Snape was
stunned by the speed of the boy's movement and the fierce intensity
of his gaze. As the master and pupil stared into each other's eyes
for a moment, Dumbledore sought to regain control of the situation."Mr.
Black, please sit back down." Harry backed away from Snape and
slumped back into the wooden chair in front of the Headmaster's desk.
"Severus, please hold your tongue." These words were spoken
sharply, and made it quite clear that Dumbledore was not pleased with
his subordinate's conduct."Now,
Mr. Black. Please explain what happened in Hogsmeade."Harry
made a quick glance at Remus, who gave him an encouraging nod. "Ginny
and I were on the hillside, beyond the far end of the village…"
Seeing Dumbledore's raised eyebrows, Harry paused for a moment before
continuing. "…enjoying the view. I heard the sounds of people
Apparating into the village…""You
heard? From the hillside?" McGonagall butted in."Yes,
Professor, I have excellent hearing. As I was saying, I heard the
sound of people Apparating into Hogsmeade, which seemed strange, so
we came down the hillside back towards the buildings to have a look.
Seeing Death Eaters in the main street, I sent you the note with my
falcon.""Indeed,
I am very grateful for your warning. The promptness of it certainly
minimised the damage and the casualty rate considerably. Although, I
am curious as to how you were able to get it to me so quickly. Was
your falcon with you?""He
is very intuitive, sir." Dumbledore didn't respond, clearly
hoping for more details that Harry wasn't going to give. "We
were trying to get back to the castle, by taking the back streets and
alleys behind the main street. We had hoped to avoid getting into any
trouble that way. However, we came across a Death Eater torturing an
old man. When
he saw us, he left the man aloneand
turned to face us instead. He
attacked me with the Cruciatus Curse, but I was able to dodge it.
As he started to cast the Killing Curse at us, we both instinctively
defended ourselves.""There
is no defending the Killing curse, Mr. Black. Please elaborate,"
asked Dumbledore."Attack
is the often the best defence. We simultaneously attacked him with
whatever came naturally
to us. I would say it was a mixture of impulsive
and accidental magic.""Mr.
Black! Between the two of you, you
burnt through the man's chest down to the bone beneath. There was a
perfect ring of flame still burning on his chest when Professor Lupin
and I arrived. Accidental magic simply doesn't happen this way,"
Professor McGonagall said, soundinghighly
flustered for someone
who was usually unflappable.Harry
turned to look briefly at the Transfiguration teacher before
returning his gaze to the headmaster. "As far as I'm concerned,
the guy tried to kill Ginny and I.We
defended ourselves and killed him instead. For some reason, I'm OK
with that.""Typical
Slytherin," muttered the Gryffindor Head of House, under her
breath."Ginny,
on the other hand, was extremely shaken by what we did. Please don't
question her in this way. She can tell you no more than I.""I
will take your request into
consideration, Mr. Black. Now, would you excuse us, please? I would
like to discuss matters with your Professors.""Would
it be alright if I joined Ginny and spoke with her parents?""Of
course. Please go through to the antechamber."With
Harry's advice foremost in her mind, Ginny filled her thoughts with
the memory of the beautiful phoenix song and stepped through the
doorway into Dumbledore's antechamber. The room was smaller than the
large office, and
it was clear that it wasn't used often,
being reserved primarily for sensitive meetings between students and
their parents. There were no portraits on the walls, no gadgets or
magical objects such as those that adorned the Headmaster's office,
and of which he was so fond. No, the room was simply furnished with a
pair of soft, deep red sofas, which were opposite each other and
separated by a low oak table. It was on one of these sofas that Mr.
and Mrs. Weasley were sat waiting, when they heard their only
daughter
come through the door.Ginny
stopped just inside the doorway,
as her parents both turned to look at her. After a fleeting pause,
Molly Weasley was off ofher
seat and engulfing her daughter in a typically overwhelming hug.
Moments
later, she let go of her andheld
her at arm's length takinga
good look at her. The experienced mother could see the dried tears on
Ginny's pale cheeks and sensed the sadness and weariness in her
daughter's posture."What
happened, Ginny? What is it?"Ginny
said nothing, but looked at her father instead. The usually jolly
face of Arthur Weasley was calm and serious today; a side of him
Ginny rarely saw. "Professor Dumbledore told us that you were
caught up in the Death Eater attack on Hogsmeade, but he didn't tell
us more than that."Seeing
the expressionless face of her father was too much for the young
girl. The stern image replaced the phoenix song in her mind, and her
composure
slowly crumpled and tears began to fall once more. Arthur quickly
stepped forward and held his daughter close, trying to give
her the comfort she clearly needed."I'm…sorry…"
the distraught girl cried. "I'm…so…sorry."Breaking
away slightly from his daughter, Arthur bentdown
so he could look straight into Ginny's swollen eyes. "Whatever
has happened, whatever you have or have not done, you are our
daughter and we will always, always love you more than you could ever
possibly imagine, OK? There's nothing that will ever change that.""Really?""I
promise, little one. Your mother, too.""Yes,
Ginny, that goes for me, too," Molly said softly. "Now,
come and sit down and tell us what has happened."Ginny
allowed herself to be guided to one of the sofas, where she sat down
between
her two parents."I
was with Adam in Hogsmeade…""Who
is Adam?""He's
the boy who carried me out of the woods in the summer, and fixed my
ankle. Do you remember him, Dad?""Yes,
petal. I remember him.""Adam
heard Death Eaters Apparating into the village, so he sent a message
to Professor Dumbledore. We were trying to use the back streets to
get back to the castle gates when a Death Eater attacked us.""Oh,
my sweet child," cried Molly. "Were you hurt? Did he hurt
you?""No,
mum. I'm fine.""So
what happened, sweetheart?" Arthur prompted."He
started to cast the k…" Ginny broke off, unable to say the
words."Come
on, love. It's OK. Whatever happened, it's over now." Arthur
gentled stroked his daughter's hair as he spoke. Ginny composed
herself, and tried to act upon Harry's advice. Hearing the phoenix's
calming melody in her head, she lifted her head and spoke confidently
to her parents."He
started to cast the Killing curse.""OH!"
cried Molly, and she clutched her hands to her chest. Arthur paled,
but said nothing. After several moments in which none of the three
spoke, the door to the room cracked open, and Harry stepped through.
To the surprise of both of her parents, Ginny leapt up off the sofa
and went straight to the black-haired boy, who opened his arms and
pulled her close to him. Speaking over the top of Ginny's head, Harry
addressed
her parents."I
apologise for intruding, but I wanted to make sure Ginny was OK.""That's
quite alright, young man," replied Arthur, as he stood up. "Last
time we met, I called you Shadow, but I understand your name is
actually Adam?""Yes,
Mr. Weasley. Adam Black.""Black?"
Arthur
repeated, with a quirk of an eyebrow.
"I take it you are related to Sirius Black. That would explain why
you were so keen to see Pettigrew apprehended.""Yes,
sir. We are distant family.""Ginny
was just explaining to us what happened to you earlier. Her last
statement left Molly and I rather shocked. Perhaps, darling, you
should finish the tale." Arthur sat back down,next
to his wife, who clung on to him, scared of what the teens were going
to say next. Harry and Ginny sat opposite her parents, similarly
close together, and holding each others hands for support."So,
Ginny, what happened when the Death Eater started to cast the…that
curse?" Arthur asked tentatively.Harry
glanced at Ginny before answering, silently asking for permission to
answer on behalf of them both, which she gave with the merest of
nods. Knowing that she wouldn't want him to take the blame entirely
himself, Harry gave the most honest of answers."We
killed him first."By
the evening, the remainder of the student population had by now heard
the news that Death Eaters had attacked Hogsmeade. Harry and Ginny's
study circle were gathered in the Hogwarts library, as they usually
were on a Sunday evening, although none of them were actually
working. Each one was concerned for the welfare of their friends, and
in Ron's case, his sister, who had gone to bed early with her
Dreamless Sleep potion. Adam, as far as they knew, was with Professor
Lupin. Grace was humming a tune while she pretended to study; a
harmless act that today was infuriating her cousin."Do
you have to sing, Gracie? I'm trying to concentrate.""Sorry,
H. That tune is just stuck in my head, you know?""What
is it, anyway?" Ron asked."It's
called Red and Black. It's from a Muggle musical about the French
Revolution.""Red
and Black, huh? Just like Ginny and Adam.""And
the nursery rhyme!" piped up Luna, who had been quietly reading
the Quibbler."What?"
spluttered Hermione."The
old wizarding nursery rhyme. How did it go…? Child
of shadow, boy in black, carries the weight of the world on his back.
Child of fire, girl in red, don't let them catch you out of your
bed.""Hey,
I remember that," said Ron. "Mum used to sing it to me and
Ginny.""What
does it mean?" asked Hermione."I
dunno," Ron replied. "It's just a nursery rhyme, isn't it?""Oh
no, Ron," said Grace, with a smile on her face. "Hermione
here is a bit obsessive when it comes to nursery rhymes.""I
am not obsessive. It's just that they're fascinating." Grace
stifled a giggle, but Hermione carried on, unabashed, "Nursery
rhymes are always based on legends or myths or historical events.
It's just a matter of doing the research to find the correct origins.
There's bound to be something in here somewhere…" Hermione
quickly put
away her
school work and disappeared into the rows of books."You've
done it now, Luna," laughed Grace. "Now she won't stop
until she's found out who the 'Boy in black' and the 'Girl in red'
are."





--------




This
is the penultimate chapter, and things start building towards the
finale. Mega hugs to SNB.Chapter
8: In which Voldemort gets personalAttack
on Hogsmeade – Death Eaters ApprehendedBy
Rita SkeeterAt
approximately 1pm yesterdayafternoon,
the sleepy village of Hogsmeade, Scotland, was rudely awoken from its
peaceful routine by the sudden and dramatic arrival of aforce
of Death Eaters, believed to number around twenty four. Despite the
apparent aim of You-Know-Who's fanatical supporters to cause as much
damage as possible, the side of Light, for once, scored a significant
victory.Within
moments of the intruders' Apparating into the main street of the
village, warning was sent to Albus Dumbledore, Headmaster ofthe
nearby Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Responding
immediately to the warning, the Supreme Mugwump led staff members and
other wizards, believed to bemembers
of a secretive organisation called The Order of the Phoenix,
into battle with the evil-doers.Our
valiant and brave members of the Auror division were also quickly
deployed, and were instrumental in bringing about the confinement of
17 Death Eaters. One Death Eater was killed in the skirmish, and
his death wasbelieved
to have been the result of an obscure fire spell. It is unclear at
this time which member of the Light side's forces was responsible
for this killing.Ministry
sources reveal that the apprehended Death Eaters are being held
awaiting trial. For further information on the clandestine existence
of The Order of the Phoenix,
turn
to…Harry
passed the Daily
Prophet
back to Blaise Zabini, to whom h happened to be sitting with for a
change, and returned his attention to the now-cold sausages and
scrambled eggs on his breakfast plate. Surprising the other boy,
Harry made no outward response to the content of the newspaper
article, as if it had been the most trivial story in the world."That's
it? No clever comment?""What
do want me to say, Zabini? How pleased I am that these idiots were
caught, and antagonise half my own house? Or maybe I should laud
their efforts and be hexed by the entire Gryffindor table?""Attaboy,
Black. I knew you had a retort in you somewhere.""Glad
to be of service, Zabini. Now, if you'll permit it, I'd like to eat
my cold breakfast in peace, so I can think up more sharp responses to
your inane questions.""Permission
granted, you insufferable git.""Sticks
and stones, Zabini.""Huh?""Stupid
pureblood," Harry muttered, just loud enough for his house-mate
to hear.Monday's
lessons passed by uneventfully for both Harry and Ginny. The pair was
well above average in
terms of power
and were studious as well. As a result, lessons mostlycame
and went without incident. Following dinner, the couple met in Remus'
History of Magic classroom, a place within the castle where they
could be assured of refuge away from prejudiced house-mates or
over-zealous teachers. Under Binns' tenure, the room had become
synonymous with boredom, to the extent that most students avoided it
out of habit.Remus,
as usual, was ensconced in his office which adjoined the classroom.
This evening he was occupied with the grading of First Year
assignments on Goblin history. Even though the ghostly Professor
Binns was merely a fading memory, the subject of Goblin Rebellions
still featured in
the History of Magic curriculum. The main differences being that the
teacher made the subject interesting and that it only formed a
portion of the topics covered.Despite
his guardian being engrossed in the nefarious doings of Flintrock the
Vicious in 1637, and behind
the heavy oak door of his closed office,Harry
still placed a wandlessly cast privacy charm around the back pair of
desks in the classroom, on the left hand side. The werewolf had
exceptional hearing, and although Harry was happy to share things
with his guardian, Ginny may not be. The two adolescents pulled the
chairs close to each other, and Harry took Ginny's small hands in his
own."How
are you today?""I'm
OK. I've
been channelling my inner phoenix.""So
you've come to terms with what we did?""I'm
getting there. My head knows we did the right thing, it's just my
heart that needs convincing. Having a phoenix singing in my head all
day definitely works wonders.""I'm
glad you're doing OK. I've been thinking about you all day.""Me
too.So
how was your day?""Uneventful,"
he said. He stopped for an instant before bringing up a matter that
had been weighing on his mind ever since last afternoon.
"Look, Ginny...what we did, what our magic did – I want to
understand what happened. Our magic combined when we killed that
Death Eater. I saw it, but I felt it, too. Please tell me you felt it
as well.""Yes.
I did. It was like…" Ginny paused as she thought of the right
words. "It felt as if we had one pool of magic between us. It
was much stronger than when I feel just my own magic."Harry
didn't respond straightaway but considered her words for a moment.
Now that Ginny described it, he realised itwas
what he had felt, too. Their magical reserves had combined and grown,
just for that moment when they hadcalled
on their instinctive magics; hisshadow
and Ginny's fire."I
think we should talk to Remus.""What?
Tell him everything?""Yes.
There's one thing I haven'tmentioned
when I've told you about my life. It's nothing big, it's just never
been important. When Remus and Sirius took me from the orphanage, we
made promise to each other; full disclosure, no secrets. He knows
about me; everything about me - the animals, the parseltongue, the
wandless stuff. If we want to learn about this combining of our
magic, than he will help us.""You
think we should tell him about me? About the fox and the phoenix? The
magical bond between us?""Yes,
I do. He's a very clever man, a lot like Hermione in some ways –
he's big on research – but I know he'll help us, and keep our
secrets. If you don't want to tell, I'll drop it and never ask again.
It's up to you.""Merlin,
Harry. Even my parents don't know about what I can do, yet you want
me to reveal
my secrets to someone
I hardly know.""I
know him. I'd trust him with my life.""Yes,
he is a good man; that much I have sensed already." Ginny let
out a sigh and pulled one of her hands away from Harry to sweep her
long hair over her shoulder. "Fine; we will talk to Professor
Lupin. If you trust him, then I will, too. I know you would never
lead me down the wrong path.""Thank
you, Ginny. I really think he will help us understand what's
happening. Come on, he's in his office now."Harry
waved his hand to remove the privacy charm and the two walked up
through the rows of old wooden chairs and desks towards Remus' office
door."Alright
if we come in, Moony?" Harry called after
he had knocked."We?"
Remus called back.Harry
chose not to reply to his guardian, but assumed that his permission
had been granted. Opening the door, Harry politely ushered Ginny
ahead of him. The pair settled onto a small sofa that was in front of
the office's fireplace. Remus sat in the small armchair that
completed the suite and politely asked Harry and Ginny how they were.Ignoring
the question, Harry dived straight in with what he wanted to talk to
the older man about. "Moony, you know my animals?"Remus
nodded, not knowing whether he should be more surprised that Harry
was bringing this up out of the blue, or that he was bringing it up
in front of Ginny Weasley."Ginny
has them, too."Harry
and Ginny went on to explain to an
astoundedRemus
how Harry's wolf had smelled Ginny's fox, back in the summer when
they had met in the forest near their homes. They told him how they
had spent each Saturday in the Forbidden Forest so thatGinny
could get to know her animals and start to develop their senses in
the same way that Harry had done, many years before. Harry also
sheepishly mentioned how he had carelessly allowed the two of them to
be bound to each other, albeit weakly, thanks to his carless words.
Ginny, Remus noticed, didn't appear to be concerned by this at all.When
Ginny took over the story-telling, Remus found her voice incredibly
easy to listen to; it was a calm voice, soothing and gentle. The
History professor was interested in the kid's tale of the strange
little black book, how it had felt evil from the start, and how it
behaved when they burned it. This piece of information it was agreed
Remus should discuss with the Headmaster, to see if the old mage and
the Marauder could puzzle it out.Finally,
Harry and Ginny explained what had really happened when they killed
the Death Eater, how they had each cast the magic that came to them
most instinctively, fire for Ginny and shadow for Harry."And
your two spells merged?""The
magic merged, Moony. There were no spells, as such; just magic. After
it left my hands and Ginny's wand, heading towards the Death Eater,
the two streams converged far sooner than they should have done, and
seemed to weave together. From the point they met, it looked like
black flames. What I didn't mention to Dumbledore…""You
mean apart from everything you've just told me?" Remus teased.Harry
ignored the older man and continued. "As I was saying, the Death
Eater tried
to put up a shield when he saw our magic heading for him.""So?"It
was Ginny who finished the explanation. "Our combined shadow and
fire went through his shield like my brother goes through his
breakfast.""Huh?"
said the males."Quickly,
efficiently and before you've noticed, there's nothing left.""In
other words," said Harry. "Our magic sliced through the guy's
shield like it wasn't there, and left a crater where his ribs used to
be.""So,
do you want me to talk to Dumbledore about this, too? I've never
heard of this before.""NO!"
cried both the teenagers."No,"
repeated Harry, more calmly when
Remus' eyebrows shot up in surprise.
"We want to experiment. Found out whether this was a one-off, or
if it will happen again. When things with Voldemort come to a head,
this might be a valuable weapon.""You
told Ginny about…?""Yes,
he did," the girl in question piped up. "Whatever caused us
to both have these tattoos, it's left me feeling connected to Adam
like a kindred spirit. With the bond on top of that, there's no
chance I'm going to not be by his side every step of the way.""And
she knows…?""Yes,
Moony. I told her who I really am. So, will you help us figure this
shadow-fire thing out?""Of
course I will, Adam. Now, have either of you heard of the Room of
Requirements?"Homework
and full moons permitting, the young couple spent two evenings each
week with Remus in the mysterious Room of Requirements, using it as a
safe training environment. For Harry and Ginny, it was a fantastic
opportunity for them to allow their animals out during the week,
something which greatly benefitted Ginny, as she was still a long way
behind Harry in developing the traits of both the fox and the
phoenix.On
their first evening in the room, Remus had given the pair some
good-natured ribbing about their new status as an official couple. "I
feel so proud, my cub's growing up. Now then, Adam, you do know it's
only a small step from kissing to other things…""Hold
your horses there, you old fleabag," Harry interrupted. "We
haven't…""Well
that's a good thing," Remus interrupted back. "Ginny is
only fourteen after all and…""And
we haven't even kissed yet!" said Harry forcefully to his
guardian, who was trying hard not to show his amusement."No.
We haven't," Ginny saidthrough
gritted teeth. "Stupid Death Eaters.""Well,"
said Moony, "Shall we make a start…?"Over
the weeks leading up towards Christmas, the three tested Harry's
shadow, Ginny's fire and the two combined in everyway they could
think of. The strange black conjured nothingness withstood each and
every curse or hex that Remus could
think of to throw at itwhen
used as a shield. The blackness just seemed to absorb whatever came
in contact with it.
Even conjured objects disappeared into the shadowy nothingness.
Finally, after exhausting every other idea, they tested Harry's
shadow shield against the Unforgivables.The
Imperius curse was unable to penetrate a thin shield of shadow,
whereas
the Cruciatus would penetrate if the barrier was not thick enough.
With Harry's animalistic reflexes, he could still react quickly
enough to create a sufficiently thick shield to absorb Remus' Crucio,
leaving the conjured rats they were
experimenting with
unscathed in their cage. Several weeks were required to find a way to
block the worst curse of them all. The Killing Curse would make its
way through Harry's shadow barrier, no matter how thick he made it.
Enough of the sickly green spell always seeped through and ended the
life of therats
the barrier was trying to protect. The solution lay, they discovered,
in the shape of the shield. Instead of blocking the spell with a flat
barrier, they
tried using a diamond-shaped shield;
the hateful magic of the curse was drawn along the sides of the
diamond as it flared out past the defender, leaving him
safe as the spell was slowed, split and diverted either to either
side of the intended victim.Ginny's
fire was nothing more spectacular than extremely hot flames.
What astounded Remus more than anything was the redhead's control
over the element, and her ease at doing what ever she wanted with
it. They
carried
outsome
tests, but it was soon established that anything flammable would be
swiftly incinerated by the phoenix-powered fire.The
third aspect of these two extraordinary kids' magic that the three
examined was, of course, the strange phenomenon of Harry and Ginny's
shadow and fire combining. The conclusion of many tests and
experiments was that so long as the pair was within about twenty
yards of each other and shooting at the same target with their
respective flame and darkness, the magic would seek out its
counterpart and merge together before striking said target. The
strongest shield that Remus could conjure was effortlessly pierced by
the combined flame, which varied in appearance dependent on the
effort either Harry or Ginny poured into the magic. If Harry's shadow
was stronger, Ginny's flames would appear almost entirely black,
whereas if Ginny put in more effort than Harry, the coloured flames
would have a black outline only. If both of them let their magic flow
with every bit of power they cold muster, Harry's slighter greater
raw power won out, resulting in mostly dark flames that had a
fiercely bright red centre. At this maximum strength, anything that
the werewolf could stack in its path was obliterated by the merged
magic. The History professor suggested that they needed Dumbledore if
the testing was to be taken any further, an option which Harry
refused to consider at this time.Around
the beginning of December, the old headmaster made an announcement at
dinner one evening that threw half of the castle's inhabitants into
various levels of panic."Students
of Hogwarts," intoned the old man over the general hubbub of
hundreds of chattering children, before pausing so they could quieten
down. "As you are all aware, the Wizarding society of Great
Britain is once again under the threat of Lord Voldemort and his
Death Eaters." After a pause to let the gasping at the Dark
Lord's name die down, Dumbledore continued, "Difficult and
dangerous times are upon us. Only a few short weeks ago, the village
of Hogsmeade was attacked by Death Eaters. Fortunately, only a few
casualties were sustained by the villagers and no Hogwarts students
were hurt. Acts of terrorism breed fear. This is their very purpose;
to generate disharmony and uncertainty. If we let ourselves be cowed
by the heinous actions of a small minority, then the terror-mongers
and evil-doers have won. Here at Hogwarts I say that we will not be
intimidated.
We will not bury our heads in the sand and stop living our lives."The
aging headmaster paused again in his speech, taking a moment to
survey the faces in front of him, all listening silently to his
passionate speech. Suddenly, his serious expression lightened and a
warm and friendly smile broke out on his hirsute face."So,
in order to continue living our lives, I have decided we shall have a
Christmas ball. It will take place on the evening of the Winter
Solstice, the 21st
of this month. The dress code for this ball is strictly formal, and
open to Fourth Years and above.
Other students may attend as a guest of an older student. I believe
there is a Hogsmeade weekend between now and then, for those of you
who may need to procure outfits for this event. I look forward to
seeing many of you there, and having a truly magical evening."Dumbledore's
announcement took place on a Friday, meaning that Harry and Ginny
spent the next day together in their clearing in the Forbidden
Forest. Of course, Harry gallantly asked Ginny if she would like to
escort him to the ball, immediately gaining her consent. Still not
big on affectionate outbursts, Harry hugged his girlfriend and they
shared a tender kiss. After a short discussion about how exciting and
romantic the ball would be, mostly based on Harry agreeing with
Ginny's out-loud musings, the topic soon moved round to robes. The
pair decided that this would be the night that they revealed their
relationship to the school at large. It wasn't a secret by any means,
but the young pair was still fairly discrete about it. With Harry
insisting that money would be no object, the enigmatic teenagers set
about designing themselves the perfect robes. Later that night,
Harry's black falcon was winging its way to Devon, its talons tightly
clutching a letter addressed to Sirius. A letter asking for help
procuring dress robes for a ball that would be talked about for years
to come.It
was barely a few days after Dumbledore's speech and announcement
about the Christmas Ball that the excited mood in the castle began to
wane. As if a direct response to the old Headmaster's words, and
quite possibly as a result of children of Death Eaters writing home
to their parents, Voldemort chose to go on the offensive. On the
Wednesday,
the school at large was busy enjoying the sumptuous breakfast that
the Hogwarts' House Elves had dutifully provided as usual. All of a
sudden, the chatter quietened down as a stranger dressed in the dark
red cloak of the Ministry's Auror division entered the hall ad strode
purposefully towards the Headmaster. After a brief whispered
discussion, Dumbledore gestured towards Professor Sprout, who led the
Auror to a third year at the Hufflepuff table. Needless to say, the
girl did not return to classes for the remainder of the term."Who
was that girl?" Harry whispered to Naomi Crabbe, next to whom he
often sat at breakfast time."Jenny
Jones,"
she
replied instantly; it seemed that there wasn't the young Miss
Crabbe didn't know of.
She's got a brother who's due to come here next year. Mother's a
Squib, father's a Muggle bootfaller or something like that.""Do
you mean a footballer?""Yeah,
that's it. What kind of a job is that anyway?""It's
a Muggle sport.""Oh.
Well, I think they lived near Manchester, great big house. Father's
rich, for a Muggle.""How
do you know all this stuff?""Oh,
you know. I keep my ears open.""Yeah
right!" Harry retorted. Naomi was unable to respond to her Fifth
Year friend because the owl post chose that moment to arrive. Around
the hall, many gasps were heard as the older students and staff
unrolled their morning editions of the Daily
Prophet.
Half of the front page was taken up by an eerie photograph of the
Dark Mark hovering in the night sky above a burning house.The
Dark Mark ReturnsBy
Seeta KerritThe
Wizarding public of Britain was shocked to its core last night at one
of the most terrifying sights in our history;
a colossal skull with a snake protruding out of its mouth.
Yes,
fellow witches and wizards, we are once again waking up to see
He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named's Dark Mark hanging in the sky. There can no
longer be any doubt that You-Know-Who has returned to terrorise Great
Britain once more.Following
the attack on Hogsmeade several weeks ago (see page 4 for more
information), there had been no indication as to whether that
incident was a
one-off
or the sign of things to come. It seems however, that the latter is
true, as the chilling skull and snake symbol was witnessed in seven
towns and cities across the country last night. It is believed that
random Muggle homes were selected as targets.The
Ministry urges the Wizarding population to take precautions. Do not
linger in isolated places. Brush up on rusty defence skills, but
above all, remember that the Ministry's Aurors are working around the
clock to bring these criminals to justice….Five
days later, another attack occurred. The first noticeable difference
was that three Aurors, in their distinctive red uniforms, marched
into the hall. Remembering what had happened the week before, the
occupants of the Great Hall held their breath, waiting, wondering,
praying the Death Messenger would not come to them.The
Violence ContinuesBy
Kris AtetereIn
the second night of terror in this spate of Death Eater violence,
thirteen Muggle targets were attacked last night. Teams of
Obliviators worked tirelessly in the small hours of the morning,
modifying the memories of Muggles who witnessed the Dark Mark
floating eerily in the sky above their neighbours' houses.It
is believed that seventeen Muggles and Squibs were killed during the
night, leaving three Hogwarts' students without parents…The
following week, Voldemort and his supporters stepped things up a
notch, moving from inconsequential Muggle targets and deciding to
strike at the heart of British Wizarding society.Death
Eaters Attack St. Mungo'sBy
Kersti TeareIn
an unprecedentedand
unexpected move by He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named, a band of raging Death
Eaters caused both death and destruction alike when they rampaged
through the wards of St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies.Striking
in the dead of night, Aurors estimate that between twenty and thirty
of the Dark Lord's supporters forced their way into the hospital,
before indiscriminately torturing and killing both staff and patients
alike. In all, twenty three patients and eight hospital staff were
killed by the Death Eaters, with many more seriously injured.The
Aurors, aided by the mysterious Order of the Phoenix, managed to
apprehend several of the masked attackers, although not without
suffering their own losses. It is believed that two Aurors were also
killed in the line of duty last night….In
the weeks that followed the attack on St Mungo's, further lesser
skirmishes continued to dominate the front pages of the Daily
Prophet. The buoyant mood following Dumbledore's passionate speech
was long forgotten as each morning the student populace waited with
baited breath to see if any of the Ministry's red cloaked Aurors
would appear with ill tidings. Even the Slytherin house had been
affected by the attacks, with several students losing parents who
refused to join the ranks of the Dark Lord.Harry
continued to read with horror at the atrocities these men and women
committed in the misguided name of blood purity. Although his
Slytherin persona made Harry appear to be indifferent to the state of
society, on the inside his inner wolf howled at the unnecessary loss
of life. The intelligent panther roared at the pointlessness of it
all, while his inner falcon cried at the cowardice these sycophantic
barbarians displayed. In contrast, the
cold-blooded snake and spider did not seem to respond to Harry's
emotional state.Eventually,
on December 21st,
came the straw that broke the camel's back. Voldemort was getting
personal.You-Know-Who
Speaks in Diagon AlleyBy
Terri SteakeDuring
an alarming
afternoon at Diagon Alley, He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named himself spoke to
the nation. The events began around three o'clock yesterday afternoon
when dozens of masked and robed Death Eaters Apparated into Diagon
Alley. Remarkably, the attackers used no Unforgiveable curses,
choosing only to petrify or stun those few shoppers and storekeepers
who were on the alley's streets.A
woefully undermanned force of Ministry Aurors was quickly overwhelmed
by the superior number of Death Eaters, but they, too, were left
relatively unharmed by their aggressors. Making their way to the
marble steps of Gringotts Bank, which had sealed its doors at the
first sign of a disturbance, the victorious Death Eaters lined up on
the steps, as if waiting for something to happen.I
can tell you, my faithful readers, that something did indeed happen.
After several minutes of waiting, He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named Apparated
into Diagon Alley, strode calmly towards his waiting contingent of
Death Eaters before turning calmly to address all the people who were
in the Alley. His high, chilling voice carried throughout the street,
his words terrifying."I,
Lord Voldemort, have returned to Wizarding Society in order to
continue the noble work of my ancestor, the great Salazar Slytherin.
Some years ago, a prophecy was made concerning my self and a child,
which stated that the child would be my equal. As a baby, the child
inexplicably defeated me, but now I am reborn, stronger than before.
Where is my equal? Where is this boy? Where is Harry Potter, your
precious Boy-Who-Lived?Yes,
wizards and witches of Britain, the only one who could defeat me is
dead. Destroyed by an explosion in a Muggle orphanage."At
this point, You-Know-Who held up a copy of the Daily Prophet from
five years ago, the day it broke the news to the nation that Harry
Potter had indeed perished in a tragic accident. The Dark Lord's
chilling address continued."So,
there is no-one who can defeat me. I will be your lord and master. In
time, you will all kneel before me. Until such time, my faithful
supporters will continue to punish those who are impure, those who
are not worthy and those who oppose me. Wizards and witches of
Britain, you have been warned."With
his oration completed, He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named swept regally through
Diagon Alley, revelling in the fear and terror evident on the faces
of those who were forced to observe him. Is our best hope to conform
to this Lord's wishes? Do we dare to hope that the once-great Albus
Dumbledore will protect us? How many more people will die at
You-Know-Who's hand?For
further information on…Harry
threw down his copy of the newspaper and stood up quickly in his
place at the Slytherin table. The anger that had risen within him as
he read the article, as he read Voldemort's words caused his blood to
boil. The black-haired teen strode briskly out of the Great Hall, all
desire to eat breakfast totally gone. In his turmoil, Harry didn't
notice the parasitic form of Draco Malfoy follow him out into the
Entrance Hall."Hey,
Black!" called the blonde boy. "The Dark Lord's words scare
you, did they? Frightened by a newspaper report?"Harry
stopped in his tracks. He was half-way across the hallway when his
house rival spoke in that incredibly annoying tone he possessed.
Turning slowly, he
saw that Malfoy had made his way across the other side of the hall,
the side nearest the Slytherin dungeon, no doubt ready to make a
quick escape if need be.After
taking a deep breath, Harry responded. "Did you know, Smallboy,
that Muggle farmers brand their animals so they don't lose them? Does
that sound like anyone you know?""What
are you talking about, Black?""Taken
the Mark yet, Smallboy? Been branded as one of Voldemort's faithful
flock?"Malfoy
didn't respond to Harry's question, but he paled slightly, and
flinched at hearing Harry say his Lord's name."Your
silence speaks volumes. So, what does a sheep sound like, Smallboy?"
Harry asked the question but didn't wait for an answer. Instead he
turned away from Malfoy, heading towards the staircase that would
lead him to the Room of Requirements."One
of these days, Black," Malfoy called at Harry's retreating back."Baaaa!"
Harry shouted over his shoulder, taunting the other boy.By
now, other students had started leaving the Great Hall and were
loitering
around the fringes of the Entrance Hall, observing this latest spat
between the two Slytherins. It took Draco a few seconds, but when he
finally comprehended the meaning of Harry's bleat, the blonde saw
red. Drawing his wand, Malfoy hurriedly sent a Stunning spell at
Harry.Naomi
Crabbe was one of those who were watching this argument with
interest. Apart from her vocation as gossip extraordinaire she liked
Harry and despised Malfoy, so she watched with her heart in her mouth
from a position at the bottom of the staircase Harry had been heading
for. As the short verbal fight ended, her black-haired friend was
walking towards her with a smirk on his face, when a red spell began
arcing across the hall towards them.Harry
heard Draco's incantation immediately, and spun around to see the
Stunner speeding through the air. It was going to miss him, but Harry
glanced round quickly to see his little friend Naomi standing right
in the spell's path. Moving with the extreme speed ad reflexes gained
from his animals, Harry was able to drag the small girl out of the
way with a fraction of a second to spare. The red beam of light
struck the wall behind her, causing a small cloud of dust."HEY!"
called a deep, slow voice across the Entrance hall. Everyone turned
to look at Vincent Crabbe, whose angry face left no-one unsure of his
state of mind. With surprising speed for the burly boy, he crossed
the hall and punched Malfoy in the face."That's
for nearly hurting my sister."Blood
spurted
out of
Draco's nose, which was probably broken, if the crunching sound was
any indication. Attracted by the flash of Draco's spell, Professor
McGonagall appeared in the doorway to the Great Hall."What
is going on here?" The deputy headmistress scanned round the
crowd looking for a prefect, when she saw Hermione. "Miss
Granger, perhaps you could explain?""Yes,
Professor. Draco Malfoy and Adam had an argument, and as Adam was
walking away, Draco fired a Stunning spell at him, but missed and
nearly hit Naomi Crabbe; Adam had to pull her out of the way. Vincent
Crabbe then punched Draco for nearly hurting his sister and walked
off.""Thank
you Miss Granger. Mr. Malfoy, I will be speaking to Professor Snape
about your punishment. However, in the meantime, I suggest Miss
Parkinson escorts you to the hospital wing. Miss Crabbe, are you
hurt?""No,
Professor, Adam saved me from Malfoy's spell.""I
suggest you get to your classes then," said McGonagall to the
assembled crowd. "Now!"Harry
started heading towards the Room of Requirement again when he felt a
gentle tug on his arm."Adam?
Where are you going? We've got Charms now," said Grace, who had
caught up with her cousin during the excitement."I'm
not going.""Adam!"
admonished Hermione. "You can't just…""I
SAID I'M NOT GOING!" Harry yelled, surprising
the two girls. "I'm sorry. I just…need some time alone."
Without waiting to hear them answer, Harry marched away, disappearing
into a shadowy corridor and out of sight. The cousins look at each
other for a moment, before both coming to the same conclusion."We
need to find Ginny."It
was after the day's first lesson that Grace and Hermione managed to
find their younger friend. Although the afternoon's lessons had been
cancelled so the students could prepare for the ball, those scheduled
for the morning still went ahead. After leaving Professor Flitwick's
Charms class, the cousins raced around the school trying to find
Ginny before she started her next class. As it turned out, the
red-head was free second period and had gone to the library to study.
The phoenix within her was restless, however, as if it could sense
something was wrong -
Ginny
was generally a late riser and had missed the morning's showdown
between Harry and Malfoy. The feeling of unease within Ginny grew
throughout her first lesson, and even though she tried valiantly to
concentrate on her Herbology text book, the nagging doubt remained.Grace,
who took less courses than her studious cousin, also had no class
during the second period, and carried on looking for Ginny, finally
tracking her down in the library. After the Hufflepuff had explained
what had happened, and how Harry had stormed off, Ginny quickly
packed her things away and headed to the Room of Requirements.Although
very few people knew about the Room, Harry, it seemed, had cast some
charm on the door, preventing entry to anyone else. With only one
option available to Ginny, she checked the corridor. When she sawno-one,
the phoenix was commanded to appear and transport Ginny into the
room. Arriving just inside the door, Ginny was surprised to find the
room was presenting itself as a dense forest. A long way into the
distance, she could hear the faint sounds of explosions and crashing.
Running with the endurance of a fox, Ginny was soon nearing the
source of the noise.In
a clearing in the magically created forest, Harry was repeatedly
summoning from the room stone statues of a tall man with a strange
serpentine appearance. Each time the statue appeared, he would summon
a ball of the deepest, darkest black magic he could manage into each
hand, before hurling them at the target. The ground of the clearing
was covered in dust and rubble; the remains of hundreds of
obliterated statues."Adam?"
Ginny called, softly.Harry
turned when he heard the calming, gentle voice. Ginny gasped when she
saw him; he was grey with dust, but his face and bare hands were
covered in blood. Blood from numerous tiny lacerations where he had
been struck by flying shards of stone."Hello
Ginny," he whispered in reply.





--------




This
is the FINAL CHAPTER of this story. A million thanks to SNB hugs.
Many thanks to everyone who has read and reviewed so far. I will
respond to all the review comments when I can – things were crazy
last week.Chapter
9: In which it is the end of the beginningThe
current sight of Harry was sore to the flame-haired girl's eyes,
but nonetheless, she walked up to him and placed a hand gently to his
left cheek. "You are covered in blood. Let's get you cleaned up
and then we can talk."The
words were simple, and on their own lacking in any depth of meaning,
but to Harry, Ginny's voice was like a warm breeze on acool
summer's evening, the smell of freshly baked pies, wafting across a
garden, or the soft, calming trill of aphoenix's
song. He nodded slightly in response to her
words. Ginny withdrew her hand,
and saw blood from Harry's many cuts upon her palm and fingers. With
a silent thought, sheasked
the Room of Requirements to get
rid ofany
trace of the stone statues that Harry had been venting his anger on.
In a heartbeat, the rubble, stone fragments and dust vanished,
leaving a much cleaner Harry, notwithstanding the red and brown of
both wet and dried blood that streaked his face and hands.Next,
Ginny requested a bowl of warm water and a soft cloth, which
materialisedon
the ground beside them. She guided Harry to his knees, knelt before
him and began to bathe his wounds. She started
with his left hand, slowly, gently and deftly taking time to wash
each finger, his palm, the back of his hand and up his bare wrists.
The cloth was quickly stained,
and the water soon became a dull red. Once the whole of Harry's left
hand had been cleansed lovingly by Ginny, she held the hand between
her own and healed all the tiny wounds, in the same way Harry used to
heal injured animals he would find in the forest. With Harry's left
hand finished, she silently and diligently repeated the process on
his right hand.Harry
did not notice that the phoenix had been in the treetops of the
magically created woods, and had been singing a tune of hope and
comfort until it stopped and flew to Ginny's side. Before Ginny began
to wash Harry's face, with a third clean bowl and cloth, she had the
phoenix cry some tears into the water. She began to wipe softly at
his neck, working carefully from one side to the other. Every
fraction of his skin was touched by the cleansing and healing water,
as the soft material glided warmly across his cheeks, his nose, ears,
eyes and forehead. Finally, after nearly an hour of
careful, loving attention, Ginny banished the bowl, water and cloth
with a thought. She cupped
his face between
her hands and planteda
soft, passionate kiss on his lips."It's
time to talk."As
her voice floated around him, sights and sounds and smells of the
make-believe forestmelted
away, leaving behind the warmth of a cosy room, furnished with a
plump and inviting sofa, which was placed before a flickering log
fire. Harry allowed himself to be guided to the seat on to which he
fell back with carefree abandonment. Ginny sat beside him, her feet
tucked up underneath
herso
she was facing the young man she adored.Unsure
of how to get Harry talking, Ginny asked a question that she hoped
would draw him into a discussion. "The statues. Who was it?""Voldemort.""How
do you…?""My
dreams. I see him in my dreams.""Oh."After
a few minutes of silence, it was Harry who spoke next. "Did you
see the Prophet this morning?""No,
I slept late and missed breakfast,"
she said, grinning sheepishly.
"Grace
found me in the library after first period and told me that something
happened between
you andMalfoy
and that you seemed really mad. She didn't say anything about the
Daily
Prophet
though.""It
seems that Voldemort is scaling up his attacks and becoming more
confident. In Diagon Alley yesterday, having sent in Death Eaters to
subdue thestreet,
he appeared himself and made a little speech. It was all in the
Prophet
today"Ginny
sensed thatHarry
was beginning to tense up as he spoke, so she shifted slightly and
rested her right hand on his arm. "Whatever it is Harry, it
can't affect us in here. Try to stay calm."Harry
took a deep breath and forced himself to relax, at least a little
bit. He looked into Ginny's beautiful brown eyes, and seeing nothing
but compassion, he continued his explanation. "He said that
because Harry Potter is dead, there's no-one who can oppose him. The
world is going to kneel before him and call him master, and there's
no-one to stand in his way. I know it's not rational, but I feel like
he's killing in my name. I'm afraid it does affect me in here,
because I feel sick like I've never felt before. I'm angry, confused
and scared all at the same time. I don't know what to do, Ginny."Ginny
was thoughtful as she tried to digest everything that Harry had just
told her. Not knowing what she could say at the moment that could
possibly help, she settled instead for physical comfort, and climbed
round onto his lap, put her arms around his neck and hugged him for
all she was worth."How
do you always know exactly what I need?" Harry mumbled into the
top of her head."I
didn't know what to say, so I went with a hug.""Sometimes,
it's best to say nothing at all."The
pair held onto each other for a long time, neither speaking, but both
drawing comfort from the other. Finally, Harry realised he was ready
to talk again. Ginny moved off his lap and retook her spot at the
other end of the sofa, facing him."I've
spent ten years convincing myself that Harry Potter no longer exists.
The Boy-Who-Lived was a fantasy, killed off by the very society that
was trying to keep him sheltered. But the moment someone uses that
name, takes advantage of it, it's made my blood boil and filled me
with desire to set the record straight.The
trouble is, Gin, that then my Slytherin side kicks in, and reminds me
that the people out there think Harry Potter is some kind of
incredible hero. A saviour. If I come forward they'll be expecting a
warrior who
will lead
them to safety. Who's going to want me? A fifteen year old Slytherin
kid. The world needs and wants a hero, something I don't want to be.""But
you are a hero already, Adam. To me. To all the birds and animals in
the forest who you've
healed
when they werehurt.
You're their champion. You're my champion and I believe in you.""So
what would you have me do? Put myself on the line for a society that
will revere me one moment and cast me down the next should I not meet
their expectations? Should I continue to live my own life, as Adam
Black and let Voldemort slowly take over the world?""I
think you know in your heart what you are going to do. You may not
see it but you are special. You do so many things that most wizards
and witches don't even realise are possible. You are far stronger
than you think, and I don't just mean physically. Your
true strength lies in your head and heart. I
have no doubt that you can be who you were born to be and not
disappoint anyone. You'll show the world how to fight for their
beliefs. How to do the right thing." "You
really believe that I'm strong? That I can stand up to Voldemort?""I
believe you can be the people's hope, that you can lead the fight.""What
if I am not strong enough?""Then
I will be strong for you. I give you my promise." As Ginny spoke
these last five words, and held on to Harry's hands, a faint golden
glow surrounded them."You
just made another bond between us…""I
know. I'll always be there for you, Harry."The
pair spent time alone together in the room, talking some more, eating
food that the Room provided when they got hungry and to a certain
extent, being affectionate with each other as teenagers are known to
be. At around four o'clock in the afternoon, Harry untangled himself
from Ginny and looked pointedly at his watch."So,
Gin, seeing as you're a girl and all, I guess it'll take you hours to
get ready for the ball.""Pratt.
Are you saying that once I put on my robes I will need hours of
further work to make myself beautiful?""Err…no?""I
should think not," Ginny teased. "But I would like to have
a shower and watch my dorm-mates run around like headless chickens
looking for the perfect shade of lipstick.""OK…whatever
makes you happy," laughed Harry. "I'm going to stay here a
bit longer, though, and think through a few things. Our robes are in
Moony's office, OK?""Thank
you. I'll meet you in the Entrance Hall then, at seven?""Yeah.
I can't wait to see how amazing you'll look.""Me,
too!"They
got up from the sofa and Harry walked Ginny towards the Room's
magical door. "Ginny?""Yes,
Harry?""Thank
you. Thank you for being with me today. You made me strong when I
felt weak. You gave me hope when I feltonly
despair. I…" Ginny was staring deep into his bright green
eyes; she was the only person who could really manage to do so. "I
love you."It
took a few moments, but Ginny's look of surprise quickly transformed
intoa
wide grin. She flung herself into his arms and squeezed him as hard
as she could, reaching up and whispering into his ear. "I love
you, too."Somewhere,
perhaps in another plane of existence, in an alternate universe or
somewhere else equally incomprehensible, the being known to its peers
as Love whooped triumphantly and danced a short victory jig. Not far
away, another being, known as Hate, grumbled and cursed."Now
now, Hate. That's not really appropriate language for a supreme
being, is it?" Love called down the table, around which these
beings stood."And
gloating is?" Hate retorted.Across
the table, another being watched the eternally bickering pair, an
amused smile gracing her lips as the tattoos of thousands of
creatures moved silently across her body.As
soon as those four magical words escaped Ginny's lips, Harry gasped
for breath and slumped against her. The smaller girl could not manage
the sudden weight upon her and did her best to lower her boyfriend to
the floor. Harry's head span as he struggled for breath, and
he slowly slid sideways from his sitting position against the door,
to the floor.
Within a few moments,
he was unconscious.Ginny
was generally a level-headed young woman, but faced with an
unconscious boyfriend whose body was slumped against the only exit
caused her alarm. Unable to rouse the boy, with a single thought, she
dispatched her phoenix to find Remus, completely disregardingwhat
the werewolf might currently be doing. Within a few seconds, although
it seemed far longer to the distressed girl, a flash of flame
signified the phoenix's return, only now its talons were grasped
firmly onto the robes of Harry's guardian,
who knelt down immediately next to him and gently lifted his upper
body into his arms."What
happened?""I
was giving him a hug when he just gasped for breath, all of a sudden,
and slumped onto me. I sat him down but he continued
to gasp.
After a few moments he keeled over." Tears were rolling
down the girl's cheeks and the
Professor spoke to her gently."I
can't see anything wrong. We'll have to take him to see Madam
Pomfrey.""But
he's blocking the door," Ginny cried, not really thinking
rationally anymore."It's
OK, Ginny. I can carry him."Barely
a few minutes later, Remus Lupinrushed
into the Hospital wing, banging open the double doors, his precious
ward cradled in his arms."Poppy!
Poppy!" the wolf called as he tenderly placed Harry on the first
emptybed.Ginny,
who had trailed along behind her Professor, sat in the chair to the
left of the bed, and continued to sob quietly. Hearing Remus' cry,
the matron swiftly bustled out of her office at the far end of the
ward. With surprising speed for a woman of her age, she was at
Harry's bedside in no-time, wand in hand."Can
you tell me what happened, Remus?" the nurse asked as she cast
diagnostic spells over Adam's still body."According
to Ginny, he just suddenly began struggling to breathe, and lost
consciousness in a few minutes.""I
see," said the Healer, without taking her eyes off the patient.
"Miss Weasley, had the two of you been engaged in any kind of
strenuous activity prior to this incident?""No,
Madam Pomfrey. We'd been mostly talking since this morning. I was
just giving him a hug when…" Remus moved a little so he could
place a comforting hand on Ginny's shoulder."What's
wrong with him, Poppy?" heasked,
his voiced laced with concern for his adopted child."As
far as I can tell, Remus, there's nothing wrong at all.""I
don't understand," Ginny cried out. "He couldn't breath.
He's unconscious.""Please
child, let me explain," Madam Pomfrey said kindly. "Mr.
Black is perfectly healthy, from a physiological perspective.
Something appears to have triggered a growth in his magical core, and
his body has shut down so that it can recharge this new core. Do you
understand?""I
think so," Ginny replied, with a sniff."When
will he wake up?" Remus asked the Healer."It's
hard to say. It's not unheard of for this to happen, but it is rare,
especially in teenagers. Usually the growth of the magical core is
gradual, and takes place from around age eight to sixteen, so it goes
by unnoticed. The last time I saw this happen, the girl awoke after
about an hour, if I remember correctly.""Thank
you, Poppy. It's a great relief to know he'll be fine in a little
while.""I
expect he'll be more than fine, Remus. He'll be bouncing off the
walls!"As
Ginny moved from the chair and perched on the edge of the bed so
she could
stroke Harry's black hair out of his eyes, Remus followed Madam
Pomfrey to her office.An
hour later, Ginny was still sitting on the side of Harry's bed,
holding one of his hands and caressing it lovingly. In the chair
beside her was Sirius Black. Remus
had gone to his office a while before, but he now was walking up to
the bed."It's
been over an hour now, Moony. He should be awake, shouldn't he?""It
was only a guess, Padfoot. You know Adam...he never does anything by
half, does he?" The two Marauders shared a chuckle, as they each
recalled
Harry's antics over the years."Will
you tell me about him?" Ginny asked the two men suddenly. "What
was he like as a child?"It
was well after eight o'clock when Harry finally awoke from his coma.
As his eyes cracked open, the bright light of the sterile Hospital
ward took
him by surprise,
and he quickly closed them again. From somewhere close by, he could
hear the beautiful sound of Ginny, laughing heartily. Listening for a
few minutes, he heard his Godfather's voice telling his girlfriend
stories of his childhood, to her extreme amusement."Did
you tell her how I beat you in a duel when I was only ten years old?""To
be fair, Adam, I did have…ADAM? You're awake."Ginny's
growing reflexes and speed meant she moved to hug Harry far quicker
than Sirius. "Thank goodness. I was so worried.""I'm
OK now, Gin. Actually, I feel great." Harry struggled up into a
sitting position, and continued to hug the red-haired girl. "What
are you doing here, Padfoot?""Well,
kiddo. Moony Flooed to
the cottageand
told me you'd fallen into a coma. I thought it'd be the right thing
to pop in and check up on you.""And
tell my girlfriend embarrassing stories about me?""Why
look a gift horse in the mouth, kiddo?""So,
are you really OK? Do you know what happened to you?" Ginny
asked Harry,
sounding really concerned)."Actually,
I had the weirdest dream. Let's go to the Room of Requirements and
I'll explain it." Harry got off the hospital bed and headed out
of the infirmary."Should
we get Professor Lupin?" Ginny asked."I'll
get him," Sirius said. "He wanted to stick his head in on
the Ball.""Oh,
crap!" cried Harry. "We're missing the Ball. We can play
with my new power another time…""Hang
on, kiddo. How do you know that's what happened? You've been
unconscious for hours," Sirius asked, confused
by Harry's knowledge of what had come about him.Harry
stopped marching down the corridor, and turned to Ginny, who had been
desperately trying to keep up with the excited boy. "Ginny. It's
up to you; do you want to go to the ball, or hear my story?""The
story will keep until tomorrow. Let's go to the Ball.""Fine.
The robes are in Moony's office. Do you need to go back to Gryffindor
Tower or can you get ready in Moony's rooms?""So
long as he's got a shower we can use…not at the same time,
Sirius...Professor Lupin's quarters will be fine.""Come
on then," Harry encouraged, before whispering to his Godfather.
"I can't believe you were
thinking of
that, Padfoot.""How
did she…?""Trust
me, you old dog, she always knows."Under
the masterful direction of Professors Flitwick and Dumbledore, the
Great Hall had been transformed into a truly incredible sight. What
was previously a large, drab room with stone walls and floors, had
become a glittering palace of silver and white. Four enormous
Christmas trees lined each side of the hall, and each was beautifully
decorated with everlasting candles, tiny glowing snow-fairies along
with traditional baubles and tinsel. Every surface in the hall had
been coated with a magical twinkling frost effect, so that every
table, chair, suit of armour and tapestry looked as if they had been
left outside in the freezing night's air.The
four house tables had been removed for the evening, and in order to
promote a more intimate atmosphere, round tables, each with ten
places, were laid out in their place. Each table was draped with a
crisp white damask cloth, with silver threads running through it,
whilst the formal chairs, in place of the usual wooden benches, were
upholstered with the same fabric. The front portion of the Hall, in
front of the raised platform where the staff table stood, had been
laid with awhite
marble dance floor.The
tables had been dressed with fine silver and white china, shiny
pewter goblets and exquisite goblin-wrought silver candlesticks. In
the middle of each table was a centrepiece of perfect white roses,
arum lilies and Singapore orchids. Each and every couple that entered
the Great Hall that night was
struck by
its grandeur.Harry
and Ginny held each other's hand tightly as they approached the
double doors that led into
the Great Hall. They could hear the
tinkling of silver, the scraping of chairs being moved, the merry
laughter and
thumping of music; it was after nine o'clock by the time they had
gotten dressed, and the formal post-dinner music had already given
way to something more appealing to the contemporary tastes of the
older student population.Their
robes were magnificent, and would surely attract people's attention.
This, combined with the closeness that the pair was intent on
displaying, meant that the usually private couple would face close
scrutiny tonight. Steeling themselves, they stepped through the doors
into the Hall and both gasped in amazement at the majesty of the
scene.As
the pair slowly made their way through the maze of small round
tables, haphazardly-strewn
chairs
andchatting
or otherwise occupied couples, all who saw them stopped to look in
amazement. Reaching the dance floor, the throng of dancing teenagers
moved apart, stepping back in awe at the couple who arrived late to
the ball. The band played on, and Harry and Ginny, aware of the
attention they were receiving but fighting with all their might to
ignore it, held each other close and began to dance.Professor
McGonagall had noticed a disturbance on the floor, and had stood in
her position at the head table, to try and see what had caused the
disruption. In a space alltheir
own, she saw them.Ginny
Weasley was dressed in a robes
of the deepest red–
if passion had a colour, this would be it. It toned perfectly with
the girl's hair, which fell simply and elegantly down her back. The
hems and cuffs and collar were trimmed with black, and all the
material was of the finest silk money could buy. Harry's robes
was made of the same fine silk and apart from the cut, was of the
same style as Ginny's, although the colours were reversed. The robe
was black as the dead of night. As black as shadow. On the back of
Ginny's robes,
emblazoned in bright fire-coloured embroidery, was the image of a
spread-eagled phoenix. Although only Harry knew it, it was an exact
replica of the tattoo on her left arm. On Harry's back, embroidered
in the same colour as Ginny's robes,
was the face of the panther, a copy of the image that adorned Harry's
back.As
magnificent as these robes were - the obvious quality, the perfect
colours and the incredible embroidery needlework
– it was something else that made them extraordinary. Around the
bottom of each set
of robes
were flames, in Ginny's case black, flawless black, and Harry's were
the same fiery red as Ginny's phoenix. The
astonishing thing about these flames was that they were flickering
and dancing around the fabric as if burning an invisible source of
fuel.After
a time, the excitement over the pair's robes died down and the
partying students continued dancing, talking and all else. Ron and
Hermione, who were attending the Ball as a couple, were sitting at
one of the smaller round tables, when Ron surprisingly started
talking about fashion."I've
been to a few parties and whatnot, at the Ministry mostly, but I've
never seen robes like theirs before."Hermione
nodded in agreement."I
can't begin to imagine the charms that must have gone into making
them. I wonder if Ginny knows.""No,
she doesn't.""How
do you know?""Adam's
relative arranged it all. Sirius Black; do you remember him?""Of
course, Ronald. It's not as if you haven't
mentioned him before, or what happened in the summer.""I'm
just proud of what I…" The red-head broke off when he noticed
thathis
date was deliberately winding him up, and was sittinglooking
at him with a big grin on her face. "Ha ha! Those colours and
the flame patterns, they just look so perfect on them, don't they?""Yeah,
you're right," Hermione agreed."Black
as shadow and red as fire. Yes, suits them perfectly," Ron
continued, talking to him self more than anything."What
did you say?" Hermione asked suddenly."Err…that
the colours suit them perfectly.""No,
before that; the words you said about black and red.""Um…black
as shadow and red as fire. Why all the…?""Shadow
and fire," the girl whispered to herself. "Shadow and
fire.""Mental!"
the red-haired boy mutteredunder
his breath."Come
on!" said Hermione suddenly, jumping up from her seat and
starting to tug on her date's arm."Where
are we going?" Ron asked, allowing himself to be pulled to his
feet and half dragged out of the Great Hall."To
the library," the bushy-haired Gryffindor called back over her
shoulder. "I know where to find the answer.""The
answer to what?" demandedRon,
who was still more than a little confused."Boy
in black and girl in red. I remembered where I read about it before.""Oh."Back
in the Great Hall, the ballcontinued,
unaffected by the swift departure of two Fifth Year Gryffindors.
Those who saw them leavein
such a hurry most likely assumed they were rushing off to find a
quiet alcove or unoccupied broom cupboard. As the Gryffindor couple
exited through the Great Hall's main doors, a new arrival, even later
than Harry and Ginny, staggered through the small door behind the
staff table. The door led into an antechamber, a room through which
the staff could access the rest of the castle, without having to wade
through the throngs of students using the Entrance Hall.The
latecomer to the party was a woman rarely seen about the castle. She
wore strange clothes, even for wizards, had large glasses and smelled
strongly of cooking sherry. As she tottered precariously towards the
staff table, she headed towards the headmaster, who stood and greeted
her amiably."Sybill,
this is unexpected. How nice of you to join us.""Thank
you, headmaster. I was gazing into the mists of the crystal ball when
my Inner Eye showed me to be here in the Great Hall. Naturally, I
came as…" The airy, affected voice trailed away. The
Divination professor's eyes glazed over and her voice had an
ethereal, rasping edge to it when she spoke again. "The
ancient prophecy is being fulfilled; they have united..."Deep
in the heart of the Forbidden Forest, a
phenomenon that hadn't occurred in many years was taking place.
Hundreds of centaurs, male and female, young and old, were gathered
to hear the words of the Council of Elders, whichhad
been summoned by two of the Forbidden Forest's native herd. Finally,
the waiting was over. The case had been presented by the two centaurs
called Firenze and Magorian and the Elders had ruminated. The eldest
of them all addressed the assembly."Fellow
Guardians of the Forests," he cried. "Firenze and Magorian,
from this ancient forest have presented compelling information…""Man
of black shadow; woman of red fire…"Ron
slumped into his usual chair at the table in the library where
the group of friends sat to study during the evenings and weekends.
Hermione, whom he had now officially certified as 'mental', was
swiftly
scanninga
shelf filled with especially large and old tomes. After a minute's
searching, she found the one she needed and brought it to the table."I
know it's in here somewhere…" she muttered to herself as she
thumbed quickly but carefully through the ancient pages."It's an
old Centaurean legend…""A
what?" Ron asked, slightly more interested now that the search
was nearly at an end."Centaurean
– made by the Centaurs," she explained without looking up.
"Yes! I've found it…""Joined
in word, soul, magic and destiny…"Dumbledore
listened to the strange woman deliver her second real prophecy, his
mind whirling as his aged ears took in the words. Ancient
prophecy…united…black shadow…red fire…prophecy…shadow…fire…Suddenly,
the Seer's words made some semblance of sense in the brilliant mind
of the headmaster. According to Sybill Trelawney, the ancient legend
of the Centaurs was coming to pass; the Shadowfire Prophecy."All
who oppose them will perish…""OK,
Ron, listen to this. 'Since
before the founding of Hogwarts, perhaps even before the existence of
Merlin, the Centaurs of the world have believed in a myth, known as
"The Legend of Dark Flame". The legend tells of a witch and
a wizard with an entwined destiny, who will unite and brutally purge
the lands of ne'er-do-wells. The woman shall be associated with the
colour red, through love, passion, honesty and blood. The man shall
be
associated
with black, through despair and darkness. The pair shall be lovers,
and will cast aside any who stand against them. In wizarding
folklore, the legend is also referred to as "The Shadowfire
Prophecy".'""Bloody
hell!" exclaimed Ron. "You think Adam and Ginny are…?""Yes.
And although I don't like to say it…" The girl paused."What?""Bloody
hell!""Those
in their way shall be brutally swept aside…""…behold,
fellow Guardians of the Forest. Look up to the cloudless night sky.
See how Mars burns in the darkness, with the brightness of fire, yet
no other star can be seen this night. This is the sign, written by
the Centaurean soothsayers of ancient times. The Legend of Dark Flame
has come to pass. The awakening of Shadowfire has begun.""The
ancient prophecy is fulfilling. They have united."As
Sybill Trelawney finished her proclamation, she slumped into the seat
that Albus Dumbledore had risen from to greet her. His eyes were
frantically scanning the studentshim;
desperately searching for two people in particular. It could only be
them. The way they carried themselves, the way they were with each
other. The way they looked. The power they clearly possessed.
Finally, in a corner of the Great Hall, after a few minutes of
searching, he saw them. There was no doubt in the wizened educator's
mind that these two youngsters were indeed, united.Completely
oblivious to what was happening around them, and totally unaware of
the Divination professor's oratory, Harry and Ginny were locked
together in what could only be described as a passionate embrace
while a
faint red
glow pulsedaround
them.A/N
 - Btw, I will be writing a sequel!

