
This Is The Way The World Ends.I do
not own anything that you can remember from the HP books…. Mmkay?MOREOVER,
I know that technically, there are not any time turners left but I
never got to finish this before OotP came out so just go with it. It
is actually rather well written.Prologue:
Prepare myself for a war.The
ground, even frozen was burning. Smoke was rising off the mass of
men, woman and children who had fallen earlier on in a long and gory
battle, which no one was prepared to fight. The wind had blistered
over the grounds of Hogwarts as if trying to cleanse the sorrow that
had fallen across its field. Now only ten remained after the hundreds
that stood.Hermione
and Ron stood flanked to Harry's back throwing out curses to the
six hooded Death Eaters that moved swiftly to their triangle,
stepping over the bodies of beloved classmates and Professors. Ron's
voice rang through the roaring of magic that encased them taking down
two of the cloaked figures before a third had shouted causing Ron to
sway before falling in a heap surrounded by a brilliant and deadly
glow of green. Hermione tucked in closer to Harry's back bridging
Ron in between their quivering feet. A slicing hex seared through
her robes into the core of her knee, slouching down against Harry's
back before her voice rang out binding a hooded demon to the ground."Kneel
down before me Harry; this is your last chance to save yourself."
Hissed Voldemort his wand aimed to Harry's scar.Hermione
felt the curse before it even left Harry's mouth. The hairs
tingling on her neck as her binding spells went out to the remainder
cloaked men." Ada-"
Harry voice was strong despite the red hazed spell the soared to him
from the hissing lips of his rival. His legs gave way pulling
Hermione down as he sunk into the frozen tundra that surrounded them.
Voldemort's laughter rang through the night."You
have to mean it Harry, you can't hesitate." He hissed before
waving his wand again.A clink
of metal and a flash of gold hovered above the trio's head before
encircling them in a rewinding flash sending them hopefully five
turns into the past. Through the shifting shadows of time, the scenes
of battle raged on around them, heaving and colliding into their
already wounded bodies. A sharp jab in Hermione's elbow sent the
Time-turner tumbling from her fingertips, falling tail over head from
her hands adding more turns than she could keep count of to its
already spinning frenzy. She caught it by its golden cord halting her
and her charges in a Hogwarts past.She
blinked a furry of tears from her eyes as she scanned the land before
her. There was snow, more so than that, no burning bodies or bloody
rivers melting the ice, only the crisp clean and magical air of an
early Hogwarts autumn. A wave of pain overrode her wounded leg, which
was twisted in unsavoury angle under Harry's quivering body. Her
voice cracked out hollow and low before a crescendo of shrill fear
and anguish shout from her mouth calling anyone who could see or hear
her desperate plea for help. Her heart cringed before a deep dark
overtook her eyes and mind.





--------




1. In my
time of dying.Her eyes
focused on the marble ceiling above her, "The hospital wing." she
sighed with relief.For the
moment she could forget everything, lull herself back into the sweet
deception of being victorious. The famous trio back under the care of
Madame Pompfrey again after getting into glorious trouble at the end
of term and once again saving the world. No Horcruxs and certainly no
wars. Hermione shifted her head to her left smiling fondly at Harry
who was sleeping in the cot next to her."Yes,"
she thought "exactly, as it should be." She exhaled deeply
snuggling under the thin sheets of the hospital duvet and rolled her
head to the right. Her heart tightened instantly and clamped in her
chest. A thin white sheet was pulled up over the head of the boy
lying in the cot, his hand dangling off the side."Ron."
Her mouth was dry with grief. She pushed herself off the cot tenderly
supporting her weight on her right leg, limping towards his bed.She
pulled back the sheet staring into the face of her Ronald. "Wake
up." she demanded thickly."Ronald
Weasley, you wake up this very moment." Her voice was hard and
firm. She grabbed his shoulder shaking him roughly, "This is no
time for pranks, wake up!" Her sharp words rang loudly through the
room."I'm
afraid there was nothing we could do for him." A kind hand followed
the Headmasters heartbreaking words.She
started to shake; there was nothing to be done. He was dead before
she pulled the Time-turner over their heads therefore he was dead in
the past. She was led back to her cot, her eyes starring at Ron even
through the curtain now pulled tight around his bed."Hermione?"
A small questioning voice broke through her vision as she turned her
head sharply towards Harry."Oh,
Harry." She whispered into his embrace. "Harry, I tried, I tried
to save us all I swear. I swear, I swear…" Her voice broken and
scared repeated her chant into his shirt."Hermione,
it's not your fault. Please know that, please it's neither our
faults." His words stung her deeply, of course, it was there fault,
they had gone off in search of Voldemort. Once again, the Golden Trio
had proceeded with the heart of a lion and sense of a flea."I'm
sorry to interrupt but there are many things I seem not privy too."
The Headmaster spoke with gentleness and bewilderment.Hermione
turned toward him, her back against Harry's chest scooting closer
towards the edge of the cot. Here sat Dumbledore in all his infinite
splendour, alive and well."You
might want to sit Headmaster Dumbledore." said Harry quietly.Albus
quickly settled into a seat opposite them."I am
Harry P-""Granger,
Harry and Hermione Granger." Hermione's voice cracked slightly as
she poked Harry sharply in the leg."We're
siblings and until very recently were engaged in a rather vicious war
along with our friend Ron." She gestured to the cot.The
Headmaster nodded slowly. "Then I assume you have travelled to us
from a future day Hogwarts?""Yes,
Sir. Though how far we have come back, I cannot say. It was my
intention to send us back to the morning of that day and I fear we've
gone much further than that.""Perhaps
it would be prudent to inform you that today; or rather this morning
is the 30th of August 1978."Hermione
groaned as Harry gasped. "Headmaster," Began Hermione. "We have
travelled much further than I had intended, twenty years further to
be precise. I am certain that you understand the precarious situation
we are in. You need to know many things and there are some things,
major things that I cannot in good conscience tell you. All I ask is
that you please bare with me." Hermione felt suddenly very old and
very tired as she relayed the delicate story to Dumbledore, along
with Harry, omitting large portions of the tale involving exactly who
Harry was or the wizard they were fighting. Though gauging
Dumbledore's expressions, she gleamed he understood more than she
was saying.She
explained much more calmly, than she felt about how Ron had fallen
and how, there were no survivors during the final battle except the
Wizard who had started the conflict along with his followers. She
also left out the part of him being dead, completely. She gave no
specifics and as frustrating as it seemed, the Headmaster listened
intently. Finally, he sat forward and cleared his throat."Miss.
Granger, do you have the Time-turner still intact?""Yes,
sir, but, please before you suggest the obvious, I beg you to
understand there is no world, no safe place for us to go if we return
to our present time. Secondly, it was so very important that Harry
not go back until either we've found a solution to stopping that
Wizard either in our own time," she took a deep breath. "or
yours."Dumbledore
starred at her for an eternity, she was sure any minute now he would
be demanding that she return immediately. There were strict rules
against the use of Time-turners that the Ministry of Magic could
enforce."Not
that the Minister even knew I had a time-turner and really right now
there in no condition to see those laws through." she thought
flippantly. Remembering the bright purple package found in Sirius old
house months before."Mr.
and Miss Granger I understand your condition even if I don't
understand how it's come to be. I will let you remain in the castle
until a reasonable decision can be determined, but I must insist that
you continue in upholding the secrecy of these events." He looked
straight at Harry when he said this. "It is important that you not
meddle in the delicate web fate has weaved so far. I understand that
a time may come when a drastic change could unsettle future events of
our world but, there is no need to unbalance the lesser courses that
fate may take."Hermione
knew with certainty what the Headmaster had been referring to. This
was a sensitive time they were in; to put it bluntly they were now in
the years of Harry's parents, which also meant Sirius and Peter
were here. Harry, Hermione feared, had little understanding of what
needed to happen. At the very least to ensure that not only was he
born but also that Voldemort try to kill him, he needed to be marked
as the enemy Voldemort feared him to be. Her headache intensified
dramatically just thinking of the fit Harry would throw when she went
to explain that to him later."For
now, aside from some much needed rest, there are some important
details we need to make. One involving your friend, Ronald."
Hermione's stomach tightened as the Headmaster spoke his name. "I
will, with your permission of course, make arrangements to have a
proper burial for him hear at Hogwarts."Harry
smiled fondly if not dejectedly. "He would have like that
Professor."





--------




2. For the
Futures Sake, Not the Pasts.They
followed the Headmaster silently out of the Forest later the
following morning after Ron's burial. It was simple yet fitting for
such a courageous man. Hermione had kept her head up the entire time
watching as the flames licked at Ron. She knew she would see him
again, though she felt sad at not having him here beside her and
Harry in preparation for another Dream Team adventure.Harry and
Hermione had briefly tried to discuss the finer details of their
present predicament the night before, after the Headmaster had let
them retire to bed. Harry, Hermione noticed, seemed contemplative,
though there seemed to be a lot of anticipation in his green eyes.There
were so many things that see needed to make him understand. She
understood he would be excited even in the wake of disaster. Yes, his
parents were alive and yes even roughly his age. It was a chance in a
lifetime, but Hermione feared that Harry would become selfish and try
meddling. He needed to understand that not only was he not allowed to
mention anything about his parents future, nor could he throttle
Peter on sight but he had to act as if he'd never known they
existed.They were
to be poising as exchange students from Drumstrang who were here at
the request of their parents who were unhappy with the workings at
their former school. They would be re-sorted at the start of term
feast, much to Harry's chagrin. He argued with Dumbledore fiercely
that both he and Hermione were Gryffindor's and that there was no
need to resort. Dumbledore then kindly explained to Harry that it be
less suspicious if they were re-sorted as oppose to merely showing up
in Gryffindor tower. Dumbledore had also asked, through twinkling
eyes, that Harry charm his hair to match that of his sisters.
Hermione had giggled at the sight of a brown haired Harry sitting
grumpily on his hospital cot.Another
set back, Hermione remembered, was that Harry was adamant on not
re-doing his six year again. Hermione had informed him through
clenched teeth that maybe it would be ideal to their situation if
they were active with the student body in hopes of gaining an
understanding of the whereabouts of a certain wizard and that it
should hardly be difficult to sit through six year again since they
were twenty years behind what they had already learned. Harry,
Hermione had noticed blushed slightly after his tantrum.The
trudge uphill out of the forest was sending pains through her bruised
knee, she doubt it would ever work properly again after the nasty
spell had hit her. The term would be starting on Monday, and she
couldn't help but to feel nervous. There were so very many things
that could go wrong now, and yes, while they were quite alive there
were still many dangers that they would have to face in the coming
months."Hermione?"
Harry's voice was soft next to her." Yes,
Harry?" Hermione tried to stretch her knee out as the land
flattened out on their way back to the castle." I
know you're worried." He said gently.She
looked at him his untidy brown hair shifting in the light breeze." It's
going to be terribly difficult this time. I know you're excited
about seeing them, but you need to understand that we can't say
anything to them. We're here because we have no world to go back to
right now, and this is our last shot at defeating Voldemort. We need
to use this time to our advantage, for the futures sake, not the
pasts." She whispered to him trying to stop the wind from carrying
her words to the Headmaster fifth-teen paces ahead of them.Harry
nodded. " I understand, 'Mione, more than you're giving me
credit for." he smiled.There was
a short pause before Harry's hand reached out for hers. " It
doesn't seem right not having Ron here."Hermione
tightened her grip on his hand. " I know. Which makes what were
doing here all the more important."





--------




3. The
Living Dead.The start
of term was just as nerve wracking as it was in her own time. They
were to wait by the lake for Hagrid to bring in the first years.
Hermione could feel the tension radiating off Harry as they watched
Hagrid float to the shore. The last time either of them had seen the
friendly giant was during the battle, and it was a unpleasant memory
like so many others.She could
remember flashes of it as the trio ran to Hogwarts screaming that the
Death Eaters were poised for attack. Even as they were shouting to
the professors to hurry, the Death Eaters were storming the grounds.
She could see Hagrid throwing the cloaked figure from his chest
towards the forest by his hut as they attacked from all sides, could
see him as he fell to the ground, gleaming with the deadly mist of
green around him. She shook her head vigorously trying to rid herself
of the memory. Watching as Hagrid pulled the boats onto the shore."All'ight
you two? I'm to take 'yer to the castle with the rest of this
lot." He said in his big friendly and booming voice.Harry
coughed before reaching his hand out to the giant. "I'm Harry
Granger and this is my sister Hermione."Hermione
stuck a shaking limb into Hagrid's massive paws."Rebeus
Hagrid, though Hagrid will do fine." He chuckled. " Right, First
Years this way." He stepped aside them and trudged to the boats
that would take them to the glowing castle.Hermione
let out a shaky breath as she followed close behind with Harry.The
castle never ceased to impress her with its brilliant glow and warmth
that seem to wrap you up in it as soon as you stepped through the
front doors. She looked fondly at the suits of armour and moving
portraits on the walls. Even with her aching knee and horrid memories
she felt the nostalgia of being eleven once again. She heard the
whispers of the children around her, the glee of wonder in their
tones. She felt her eyes tear as she longed to be in their shoes. To
feel the weight lifted from her shoulders, to be young and naïve,
to simply forget what was." First
Years, this way please, this way." Professor McGonagall's voice
broke through Hermione's thoughts. Her breath hitched in her throat
to see her beloved Professor, so much younger, so very alive standing
before her. Her mind shifted and she could feel herself recollecting
the horrid death of her mentor. Harry's hand was on her shoulder in
a second."'Mione,
it's alright, calm down. Keep your head." His words were soft and
commanding and she found that she could focus better now." Thank
you, Harry." He smiled down at her.The front
doors to the Great Hall opened as Harry and Hermione moved swiftly
behind Professor McGonagall. They strode down the main isle eyes
sweeping over the house tables. Nothing seemed to have changed
really, aside from the new faces of the students around them and the
new or rather old Professors at the head table, nothing seemed any
different from their time at Hogwarts. Hermione smiled, even twenty
years in the past Hogwarts still felt like home.Her foot
faltered as Harry stopped quickly in front of her, sending a jab of
pain into her knee. She looked to where his head was turned and
understood immediately what he had halted her for. There, two tables
down where the Mauders, or more importantly where his family sat. A
family he had never properly known."Harry,
don't draw attention to yourself, move." She whispered dragging
him along, hoping to blend in with the other students. "Idiot."
she thought, was he trying to muck everything up before they even had
a chance to sit down.They
reached the head table where the Sorting Hat and stool waited.
Dumbledore stood raising his hands to the chattering students. The
hats brim split open revealing a wide leathery mouth from which it
started to sing." A
hat like me is capableOf
quite a many thingsThough
what you choose to use me forIs
that of yearly sortingsYou'll
shove me on your tiny headsFor me
to read your thoughtsI'll
listen quite attentively Before
I sort the lotAnd
then I'll sing from my brimThe
house to which you'll goAnd
scurry off the podium To the
place you will call home.Listen
well, for I sing it onceThe
houses and there traitsIn
Gryffindor, you will finethe
bravest of the lotWho
have no fear with lionsliving
in their heart.Ravenclaw,
the bright and quick Who
think before they talkHufflepuff,
just and trueThe
loyal ones through and through.And
Slytherin a mighty houseWho
hold something from all threeThey're
brave and loyal though
to themselvesWith
quite a lot of smarts, these
cunning friends had no qualmsAbout
getting what they want.So put
me onAnd
let me seeIf
I've yet to loose my touchFor
only then shall you knowThe
trueness of your heart."The
Great hall broke into applause as the Hat finished his song.
McGonagall then stood before them unrolling the scroll in her hand
and began to read of names.Three
Hufflepuff's, two Slytherin's, a Ravenclaw and two Gryffindor's
later."Harry
Granger" Hermione poked Harry in the ribs to remind him that he was
indeed Harry Granger now. He walked slowly to the hat before taking a
seat on the stool. The Hat fit snugly around his head for a few
moments before its wide brim opened and "Gryffindor" rang through
the hall. She could see his face light up as he sprinted towards the
table. Taking a seat three students down from Lilly and Remus."
Hermione Granger." Professor McGonagall called.Hermione
walked up to the hat still seething about how easy it was for Harry
to forget why they had come, and what they needed to do. The hat
fitted to her head before its voice rang in her mind." I've
sorted you before, in Gryffindor I suspect, but now I see a better
fit. You may not be devious but very clever, cunning and astute. You
have a plot that you'll see through despite you brave and foolish
heart"Hermione
held her breath. She needed to be in Gryffindor to keep an eye on
Harry. He was bound to let something slip if she wasn't there. She
couldn't trust him to be alone with them."Slytherin!"
The hats brim yelled causing her to yelp."Slytherin?"
She thought, "Oh, if that wasn't the last place I needed to be."
She caught Harry's round and questioning eyes before she slowly
walked to the Slytherin table. As much as a set back as this might
seem, it was quite to her advantage. She could see how being a member
of Slytherin could further on her plans to seek out Voldemort or at
least keep a heads up on certain events.She sat
down careful of her throbbing knee at the end of the table. A few
older students eyed her curiously before nodding to her. She watched
the rest of the sorting all the while trying to strain her eyes to
the Gryffindor table to see if Harry had lost his patience in all the
excitement and jumped across the table to his parents. The boy was
literally fidgeting with delight. "Could he be any more obvious."
She shook her head. Dumbledore stood at the last of the sorting."Tuck
in." He exclaimed.The food
was apparently always amazing even twenty years ago. She filled her
plate and ate quietly. Harry, she had noticed had scooted down
another seat in attempt to reach the pumpkin juice which Hermione
noticed was conveniently located next to Remus Lupin. Hermione glared
at his back, forcing her thoughts into the back of his mind with all
her might."I take
it you aren't thrilled with the prospect of your brother being a
Gryffindor?" Said a low and droning voice to her left. She turned
to stare at the boy next to her.She
stared at him in shock, Professor Snape, or what would be Professor
Snape in a few years. Her heart missed a beat and felt her stomach
drop out from underneath her. The traitor, the murderer. She covered
her start with a cough." He
has a tendency to get himself in to unsavoury situations, I had hope
we would have been sorted in the same house, he needs a lot of "
She paused. "attention." She said trying valiantly to be vague.He raised
an eyebrow at her and she had to bite back a laugh at the remarkable
similarities. " In that case, you might want to warn him away from
that lot." He said pointing vaguely to where James and Sirius were
sitting." He
will no doubt find himself in quite a few unsavoury situations if
he continues to befriend them."" I'll
make the suggestion to him as soon as possible." She said returning
to her plate as a wave of memories flooded over her. How many ghost
from her past would haunt her thoughts. It was tough business she
decided, Time Travel after a war was not something she would like to
experience again, especially when she had to look into the faces of
all men and woman she had seen murdered."
Severus Snape," he said looking at her coolly over his nose that
she noticed had yet to be hooked."Hermione
Granger.""Dumbledore
asked me to show you to the common room tonight. Our Prefect is
currently unable to attain to you." He sneered. She was beginning
to wonder if the Professor was born irritable.She
nodded to him before returning to her meal taking a bite as she
looked up at the Gryffindor table again. Harry, she noticed was
already adamantly talking to Remus and Sirius and for once in her
life she prayed it was about Quidditch.





--------




He
Be More Obvious.Hermione
finished her meal quickly waiting for Dumbledore to make his start of
term announcements before hopefully sprinting off towards Harry.
Finally, Dumbledore stood to address the hall."
Welcome back students and welcome to all the new faces. I hope this
year is as rewarding as the last. I would like to remind all of you
that the Forest is still Forbidden to all students and also that the
list on Caretaker Filch's door is still prohibiting dung bombs and
other dubious items. May I also, introduce Harry and Hermione Granger
from Drumstrang who will be finishing they're six year with us
here. Please, make them all at home." He smiled warmly at Hermione
before settling again into his chair. Students then started to get up
from their seats moving towards the doors to adjourn to their common
rooms. She looked quickly to Professor Snape."Severus,
please excuse me for a moment." She said hurriedly before limping
quickly to where Harry was rising with the rest of the Mauders. She
felt a wave of anger flood over her as she noticed he hadn't once
tried to get her attention through dinner."
Harry," She called, not too kindly." Oh,
hey 'mione," he said with a huge grin across his face."Might
I speak with you a moment." She said hissing through her teeth in
what she hoped was a smile." Sure
thing." He moved away from the group after asking if they'd wait
a moment.She took
a deep breath. " You do remember what I explained to you. Right?"" Of
course, I haven't breathed a word about it. I hadn't even sent a
dirty look Wormtails way." He said good naturedly."I need
you to promise me that no matter what happens or what you hear that
you keep your mouth shut until we've had a chance to talk about
this thoroughly.""Absolutely,
Hermione." He grinned then whispering into her ear. " I'd love
to see Ron's face after hearing you were re-sorted into Slytherin."She
smiled quickly. " Yes, imagine that a Muggle-born in Slytherin."" I'll
talk to you tomorrow Hermione. Good luck." He grinned before
hurrying off across the great hall to where Sirius and James had been
waiting for him.She
groaned " As if I don't have enough to worry about." She said
before walking back to her table."
Ready?" Asked Severus looking up from his book as she reached the
edge of the table. She nodded following him out of the hall towards
the dungeons. The quick walk was quiet and brooding. She tried hard
to wipe the thoughts of her proud Professor fleeing into the night
after murdering Dumbledore. Truth be told she was not looking forward
to Harry coming across this Snape. Hermione, however had a nagging
feeling that all their close calls and flawless information back in
their future was coming anonymously from Severus Snape. Though Harry
would hear no such thing from her mouth. But, still there just seemed
to be missing pieces in the story of Severus Snape and his
unbreakable vow.She had
watched him for years in the classroom, the steel in his posture, the
rigid structure of his features, the arrogance and dignity
surrounding him like the black cloaks he wore. Now she noticed twenty
years prior to his austere soldiers march, his rigorous directives,
his sharp and biting commands. He seemed at six-teen more indulgent,
less vicious, even boundless.Hermione
sighed, even her aloof and distance Professor brought a torrent of
emotion from her past. She shook her head, now everything had changed
and instead of feeling young, playful and clever she felt tired. "So
very tired." She sighed."We're
almost to the dorms." He said softly over his shoulder.She
quicken her pace keeping a matching stride with him. Finally, they
stopped at a dead end. Severus muttered " Montreux" and tapped
his wand on the third stone from the bottom. The wall then swung back
revealing a small hallway leading to glowing common room. She could
hear the voices of the other dorm mates and a small uncertainty
welled up in her. She couldn't help shaking the feeling of walking
into the proverbial lair of snakes."The
girls dormitories are up to the right. Bellatrix will show you to
your rooms." Severus waved a hand to the tall girl to his right
before turning on his heel and sweeping up the staircase to the boy
dormitories.Bellatrix
gave her an appraising look before stepping closer and whispering,
"He's always like that, you'll get use to it."Hermione
nodded, it was much harder keeping her anger in check around this
girl. She tried hard to separate the two identities of Bellatrix. On
one hand she was Bellatrix Black a seventh year, young, arrogant,
intelligent and on the other this was Bellatrix Lestrange who killed
Sirius in Hermione's fifth year, tortured Neville's parents,
murdered her classmates and professors, slithered to Voldemort on her
belly to do his biding. Hermione breathed in deep through her nose
trying hard to concentrate on the present. There was still hope, and
for the first time Hermione felt concerned for Bellatrix and Severus
and all the others that were getting ready to enter into a life that
nothing could be gained from. If she needed anymore incentive to work
hard against Voldemort then this very moment solidified it for her.
This was much bigger than just her future, it was everyone's."
There's an empty bed over there to your right," said Bellatrix,
"I'm here and Sophronia is next to me in that bed, Docherty next
to you." She looked to Hermione." It's
a pretty quite bunch, most of us have a lot of extra projects and
clubs we go to, but they don't start till a week into term.""That's
fine." Said Hermione, wondering how many had already joined a
particularly club that had nothing to do with exploding snap and
chess boards."Right,
well if there's anything you need." Bellatrix shrugged."I'm
sure I'll be fine, it's very similar to my old school."
Hermione said distractedly walking to her bed. She worried her lip
quickly before adding, "Thank you for your help."Bellatrix
stared for a moment before nodding. "Goodnight."





--------




5. "Men
are more comfortable with imperfection and weakness, it's less
threatening."Hermione
waited outside the Dinning Hall for Harry before breakfast the next
day. She had awoke early and headed to the library to read up a bit
on history of the time she was stuck in, the good thing was not much
had changed in the Wizarding World, and as long as she didn't let
anything slip about anyone's future, no matter how bleak, she
should get along just fine. "Harry, however," Hermione worried
"needed to be prodded just a bit more." She didn't need him
interfering with outcome of anything. She spotted him on the bottom
of the stairs heading her way with James and Sirius."Alright,
'Mione?" Harry asked cheerfully."Alright.
I need to talk to you for a second." She said trying hard not to
glare at him outright.Harry
waved Sirius and James on before stepping in closer to Hermione."How
did last night go?" She asked carefully."Fine,
great actually. We're having a lot of fun." His smile beamed at
her."Yes,
well, about that. It might be better if you spent less time with them
right now. We need to be very careful." Her voice strained under
the heavy topic. She could see Harry's smile falling and his eyes
flared for a moment."Less
time?" He question loudly. "What do you want me to do, sit hold
up in my room, slink around in shadows? You don't think I deserve
just a little bit of happiness after everything?" He was shouting
loudly now and people were starting to look to them curiously."Harry,
you know that's not what I meant. Stop biting my head off! We need
to keep a low profile. We need to work together to set things right
and proper for our time. We can't mess with anything right now, and
I don't think you really understand that." She said strongly."I
understand, perfectly. It's not as if I'm spouting off about how
no one should trust Peter or what's on the NEWTS." Harry
whispered testily."It's
not even that, Harry. You can't interfere with anyone. Look, what
would happen if you asked James to go play Quidditch with you, but at
that very time Lilly, your mother," Hermione whispered even
quieter. " Was to ask James at that same moment to the Library, it
could effect everything, just that little question about Quidditch
could possibly affect if you were even born." She finished
heatedly.Harry
stared at her angrily before deflating a bit and answering, " A
compromise then, I make no effort to instigate anything. No
conversations, no outings, nothing? I take a back seat to this but
still keep them near me." He seemed to be pleading with her.She
sighed, "Alright, but you have to be really careful." she said
before turning around and heading into the Great Hall for breakfast.
She took a seat next to Severus who seemed to be eating little and
already reading through a textbook." Good
morning." she said quietly.Severus
looked up quickly from his book, as if he hadn't expected her to
speak to him. " Good morning." he whispered, before turning back
towards his book.She was
just buttering her toast when Slughorn came around with the
schedules." Miss
Granger, it's nice to meet you. I should have introduced myself
last night." said Slughorn shaking her hand."Good
Morning, Professor." She tried biting the inside of her cheek to
keep from shaking. Poor Slughorn, he had fought bravely. She shook
her head so as to focus on what he was saying." I see
you're taking Advanced Potions. It will be wonderful to have you in
my class this morning.""Yes,
sir." Slughorn smiled before briefly glancing at Severus."Severus,
studying already?" Some of the warmth seemed to drain from
Slughorn's voice."Correct,
sir. I had hope to start a personal side project this year, with your
permission or course. It really should be a fascinating…."
Severus seemed to be looking just left of Slughorn's shoulder.To
Hermione, this Snape seemed very… she couldn't quite put her
finger on it, but he just seemed so downtrodden."We'll
have to discuss it later, Severus. I've just spotted Derrick Spokes
I must thank him for the doxy powder his father sent." and with
that he hurried away leaving Snape in mid sentence.Severus
looked to Hermione quickly seeing if she was going to make some sort
of comment. He swallowed visibly. " He's very well connected, the
Professor."Hermione
shook her head. " Yes, I find that all rather rude people, are well
connected."Severus
raised his eyebrows before a small smirk tugged at his lips.





--------




6.Pay For
What You Get:Hermione's
first class of the day was Advanced Potions, with Professor Slughorn.
She felt oddly sentimental walking down to the dungeons, her mind
racing back to her own time and how oddly soothing it was to blend,
mix and concoct all the nefarious and valuable ingredients that it
took to make advanced potions. She took a seat by herself all the way
to the left of the classroom diagonal to Slughorn's desk and waited
for the class to arrive.A light
tinkle of a laugh emerge into the room before the girl entered. Lilly
Evans, Hermione thought, instantly recognizing her red hair and green
eyes. She smiled at her and took her seat two chairs down from
Hermione." I'm
Lilly." She said reaching over the table to shake Hermione's
hand."
Hermione."" I met
your brother last night." she said shyly.Hermione
was saved from answering as Slughorn entered right before a ruffled
and sullen Snape."Almost
didn't make it there, Severus." Guffawed Slughorn.Severus
inclined his head and hurried toward Hermione and the only seat left
unoccupied between herself and Lilly. He seemed agitated and upset
and an angry whelp was starting to bruise up over his cheek. He
scattered his book and quills across the table in front of him trying
to situated his dishevelled cloak at the same time."
Alright, Severus?" Whispered Lilly.He nodded
sharply flipping open the cover of a worn and thrifty copy of
advanced potions making. Hermione instantly recognized it as the copy
Harry had in his sixth year.Severus
caught her starring and raised a thin eyebrow towards her in
question. She immediately looked up to Slughorn focusing on the work
for the day."…
can anyone give the name to potion I have here." He said indicating
the cauldron to his right.Hermione's,
Severus', and Lilly's hand all shot up at once. Slughorn looked
over delighted." Let's
have you give it a try Miss. Granger, give these two a run for their
money." He said laughing."It's
Amortentia, the most powerful love potion in the world, recognized by
its steam rising in characteristic spirals and its distinctive
mother-of-pearl sheen. It's suppose to smell different to each of
us." She finished somewhat lamely thinking of Ron."
Excellent!" clapped Slughorn."
Ten-points to Slytherin."Hermione
smiled briefly at the irony of earning points for Slytherin. Severus
was looking at her carefully before quietly saying "Good job."This time
she did let out a small laugh. Severus Snape had never once said well
done, good job, or any other such thing in all the years he taught
her."Thanks."
she said smiling before noticing Lilly's rather frosty stare
towards her.She bent
her head low, " No, surly not." Thought Hermione. " Not Lilly,
and Severus. Absolutely not, it was," noticing the irony again,
"because she had earned points for Slytherin not Gryffindor.Slughorn
was talking again as Hermione refocused on the class." Now,
I'd like you all to make me a Wound-cleansing Potion. The
ingredients are in the cabinet and the instructions on the board."Hermione
leaped from her seat along with Severus and Lilly. She collected what
she needed and returned quickly already igniting her cauldron before
the other to had returned. She noticed Severus flipping open his book
and that the page with the instructions were covered in tiny black
scribbles meant, she was sure, as his notes.Hermione
glanced over to where Sirius and James were sitting. James was
showing another Gryffindor boy what might have been a re-enactment of
someone getting punched in the face with their own arm. It took only
a glimpse at Severus to confirm who they could be talking about.
Hermione tried to ignore them and work on her potion, although she
had already made this potion, in her third year no doubt, it was
still difficult. She was just about to add the billywig when Lilly
caught her hand" What
are you doing?" She asked harshly.She
didn't understand. "Adding billywig?""
Billywig isn't used in this potion."Hermione
could have smacked herself in the forehead, of course Billywig wasn't
used now, it was only until recently that they had started using it."
Actually, it is, in my uh--old school we use it to counter react the
burning sensation, when a wound is being cleaned." She finished
somewhat lamely.Lilly let
her hand go slowly her cheeks burning somewhat brighter."
Sorry." She mumbled.Severus,
Hermione noticed was watching them both with rapt attention, before
making a tiny mark in his textbook.





--------




7. I
loathe cruelty.Hermione
met Harry outside Defence Against the Dark Arts class, smiling
wistfully at the immense grin on his face as he chatted with Remus,
James and Sirius. Though she noticed Peter slinking a few feet behind
them." How's
you're first day been, Harry?" She asked while waiting for the
Professor to open the door for class. The other four leaned against
the opposite wall."It's,
well it's been fantastic." He said blowing out a long breath
through his nose. "No one knows me here, Hermione. I'm not famous
or important. They don't whisper behind my back, in fact, I doubt
anyone notices me at all." He laughed."I'm
glad." She said relief plainly visible in her face."How
have-" Started Harry before a loud ripping sound could be heard
followed by the unmistakable sounds of books and quills dropping.Harry
turned towards the noise and froze. There stooping over the disarray
of his bag was Snape, mouth thinned tightly and a blush high in his
cheeks. Hermione noticed James and Sirius snickering returning their
wands to their bags. She chanced a quick glance at Harry who seemed
torn, his head turning from his father to Snape then back to his
father. Hermione could guess the conversation going on in his head as
clearly as if he'd been speaking it out loud. This was Severus
Snape, the wizard who would kill Albus Dumbledore in twenty years,
overhear the prophecy that kills Lilly and James Potter. Severus
Snape who Harry swore was the reason Sirius was dead. Yet, this was
also the Severus Snape who was just a six year, who hardly ever said
or did anything to anyone, let alone warrant an attack for merely
walking down a hallway on the first day of term. Harry, took a deep
breath, gave one last glance at Snape and his father before ignoring
both and walking into the now opening classroom door.Hermione
snorted, apparently Harry was set to ignore Severus completely. She
bent low to recover a few loose parchments and a textbook as Remus,
Peter, and Sirius walked into class after Harry, laughing. James,
followed after Sirius stopping just before the door way and stomping
hard on a few quills laying in the corner, snapping them in half."Hurry
up, Snivellus don't want to be late for class." He glanced at
Hermione quickly. " Your brothers a good guy, Granger, so I'll
give you a fair warning. Snivelly here is a waste of magic. I'm
sure you'd have much more fun if you hung out with us some." He
gave her a small smile.Hermione
looked him straight in the eye before saying, " I doubt it." She
dropped her gaze and continued helping Severus gather his belongings.She
handed him his pile as he repaired his bag. Severus, looked at her
guardedly." What
do you want?" He sneered."Want?"
Hermione couldn't help the confusion in her voice." Yes,
want. Everyone, always wants something, Granger so what is it.""I
don't want anything, Severus." she said, tiredly, before turning
around and heading into class. Severus hastily shoved the quills in
his pocket, hurrying in the door before it shut."Ten
points from Slytherin for tardiness." Said the Professor glancing
at Severus and Hermione. A few other Slytherin's sitting behind
were Severus had just sat, whispered their displeasure vehemently.
"Nice one, Snape. Must be some sort of record."Severus
hung his head bent over his desk ignoring their comments."Welcome,
to Defence Against the Dark Arts, I'm Professor Meadows." He
turned his back on the class letting his wand tap against the board."These
are the notes---" Apparently taking advantage of the teachers
inattention a parchment ball sailed over Hermione's head and hit
Severus'. He turned to look at Sirius before gritting his teeth and
ignoring him, choosing instead to begin taking the notes the
Professor was spelling on the board.Hermione
chanced a glance at Harry sitting next to James who was doing a,
rather animated impression of Snape taking notes. Harry quickly
flicked open his book trying his best to ignore his fathers antics.Hermione
was seething. Harry could ignore it if he like, but she wasn't
about to sit here and watch this. Another, parchment flew towards
Severus, stopping inches before his head before stopping in midair
and then zooming quickly back towards James who let out an, "oomph."
as it hit him forcefully in the chest. Harry's head snapped up to
Hermione's, who's wand was out pointing towards James. Black and
James glared, looking towards Harry for some sign of explanation for
the hostility towards them from his Slytherin sister.Harry
paid them no attention, choosing instead to keep his eyes fixed
strait ahead towards the front where the teacher had turned back
towards his class again." I
say, Miss. Granger put away you're wand we won't be needing them
just yet." He said smiling tightly. "As, I was saying, we're to
be practicing non-verbal spells this week and today I'd like to go
over the basics of a non-verbal summoning charm."Hermione
couldn't ever had believed she'd be bored in a class. Non-verbal
spells? She felt like she was a hundred years older than she was.That
evening, after her last class of the day when Hermione went to dinner
in the great hall it was as if she had been running laps around
Hogwarts not studding coursework. How did they expect her to save the
Wizarding world and do all her homework? She laid her head on one of
her hands as she pulled some food towards her.She was
sipping a glass of pumpkin juice when Harry came towards her."How
were your classes today?" He asked shyly."Fine,"
she said eyeing him warily, "What are you up to Harry?"Harry,
she noticed, had the decency to look sheepish."Funny
you should mention it. I was just about to tell you that I had signed
up for Quidditch tryouts this weekend."Hermione
narrowed her eyes. " Harry, you can't try out for Quidditch,
James is the Seeker, if he's not the seeker, then he can't be on
the team, if he isn't on the team who knows what in the world could
happen." Her voice had started to get progressively louder as she
finished her sentence."Yes,
well you see, I thought you say that. That's why I didn't try out
for seeker, I tried out for beater instead. Roger is the only one
left, the other beater gradu-"Harry
stopped for Hermione had turned a angry sort of hue that never boded
well.He cut
her off before she could open her mouth. "Alright, never mind, It's
not worth the stress." He said before turning around quickly and
heading for the Gryffindor's table.Hermione
closed her eyes and pinched the bridge of her nose. Was this to be
her life, minding after Harry like his mother, when in fact his
actual mother sat three seats down from him. She stood from her table
swinging her bag up onto her shoulder and headed for the library.Hermione
had just rounded the corner towards the library when she heard a roar
of rage coming from the end of the hall." Come
on Snivellus, you can't possible mind." said a strong voice." Yeah,
you should be thanking us, from the looks of it you don't get to
bathe all the often." said another voice followed by a gurgling and
gagging noise."You're
pathetic, Snivelly, why don't you just do the world a favour and do
yourself in.""I
doubt even your own mother would miss you." sneered James." Ha,
didn't you know, James, he hasn't got a mummy anymore. She left
him. See even she couldn't stand you anymore, Snivelly."" Is
that true, Snivellus, your own mother left you?" laughed James."
You're a coward, Potter." He said, coughing and wiping water from
his mouth. "You've only ever bested me with your mangy mutt at
your side." Severus sneered, looking James defiantly in the eye.There was
a thump followed by the sound of scuffling. Hermione hurried the rest
of the way and was greeted with a sickening sight. Severus was on the
ground his body soaking wet and hands covering his head as he
struggled to crawl away, while Sirius and James continued to punch
and kick at him. She could see where Snape was bleeding from the
mouth." What
do you think you're doing!" Hermione bellowed, brandishing her
wand and freezing both of them. James and Sirius both landed with a
thump.Severus,
pulled himself up awkwardly against the wall, he was clutching his
side and deep cut to his face was oozing blood." I
don't need your help." He spat.She
raised her own eyebrows at him. " Be that as it may, I'm not
about to walk away from you. When something like this is happening."
 She said gesturing towards the two boys.He seemed
generally perplexed by her. "Why ever not?" He said so quietly it
sounded like he was talking more to himself."
Because, I loathe cruelty."Hermione
reached down seizing James' face in her right hand and putting her
wand under Sirius chin, speaking loudly so they both could hear her."
You're wrong if you think picking on him makes you significant. I
don't know what he ever did to you, and frankly I don't care.
I've seen enough violence in my life to last me three lifetimes."
She stood up walking over to Snape lending him a hand to get up. He
ignored her and pushed up on his feet using the wall to slide himself
up." Do
you need the hospital wing?" she asked quietly." No."
He bent down underneath James to reach his wand. He placed the tip to
his forehead muttering a healing spell with a voice like a song.Hermione
looked at him for a second. Had his life been like this all through
his time at Hogwarts? Getting gang up on when he was the corridors in
the evenings, getting into fights two against one only to have to
heal himself when they were through. His own housemates, she noticed,
treated him contemptuously. Where was Dumbledore with all of this
happening? A intense rage of injustice welled up inside her. Now more
than ever she wished for people just to stop fighting, over
everything, violence was so inane." What
do you want to do with them?" She asked quietly.Snape
looked down at the two boys then back at her before picking up his
bag and slinging it over his shoulder slowly." Leave
them here for, Filch."Hermione
nodded turned around and headed back towards the Library.





--------




8. More
Harm Done Than Good.The
library had never failed her in all her years of being a witch. This
thought alone kept her pouring through books upon books, before
curfew, looking for all she could on time turners and the different
things that could happen when something from the past effected the
future. If the pictures alone gave her any indication, she knew that
it never seemed to end well. Look at her last experience with one,
had they not saved Buckbeat and Sirius then who knows what might have
happened. Maybe, Peter might have never made it back to Voldemort
which would have staved off his rebirth, which in turn would have
never made it necessary for Snape make a Unbreakable Vow to protect
Draco thus having to kill Dumbledore… it gave her a headache just
thinking of it.She was
starting to understand a few of the reasons Snape turned out the way
he had. It was a fine line of distinction between herself and Snape.
Had things not gone differently her first year at Hogwarts, she could
easily see herself in his position. Being ostracized by almost
everyone, never given any recognition for anything he did, bullied
outside the classroom by his peers and ignored repeatedly by teachers
for not following directions and instead trying to redo the spells
and potions his own unique way. Then there was that business she
overheard about his mother. Whether that was true or not about his
home life, Severus Snape had a complicated and measly existence at
Hogwarts. Hermione, not one for ever wanting anyone to suffer, felt a
empathy for Snape. Not that it matter, it wasn't like she could
stop any of the events that needed to be in movement so as not to
affect her future. .She
gathered up her books from the table and returned them to the shelf.
Musing quietly as she repacked her bag, she realized that there was
so much to do these days she didn't even know where to begin. Her
original plan was to thwart Voldemort now instead of the future,
holding onto the idea that if Harry was the one to vanquish the Dark
Lord then that should hold true for the past as well. Only, she
couldn't find anything on the subject, and she wasn't about to
start killing off Dark Wizards with, a hope for the best attitude.
She glanced out the window with a smile on her lips." Yep,
Harry, that's the plan, we'll just skip off to Voldemort's
lair. A quick Avada to the chest and then back home before you can
say Quidditch."She
snorted, no what she and Harry needed to do was find out all they
could about the remainder Horcruxs so as best to know where to look
when they returned to their own time. Then they could destroy
Voldemort without disrupting the complicated axis of time.She
stifled a yawn with the back of her hand as she descended the steps
into the dungeons. It almost curfew and no one was waiting for her in
the common room, just as she had planned. She didn't want to put
herself in a situation of accidentally killing off future children or
any other such mishaps by talking to one person when that person
should be off doing something else entirely to insure their own
future course in life. She reached the bottom stair that led to her
dormitory when she heard a ruffling of cloth, turning she saw Severus
trying valiantly to stretch his long limbs out in a comfortable
position on a small settee his traveling cloak pulled up over him as
a make shift coverlet."Severus?"
She asked questioningly as she walked towards him.He looked
up at her quickly. " I thought everyone had already went to bed."
he said quietly before straightening himself in a sitting position,
trying to appear indifferent."I was
in the library, why aren't you in your dorm?"He made a
small cough in the back of his throat before answering. "My dorm
mates have seen fit to prevent me from entering my dormitory,
tonight. They are…" he seemed extremely uncomfortable talking to
her, "displeased with my reprimanding of house points from
earlier.""
WHAT!" Hermione shouted.Severus
spread his hands in a way as to convey a "it is what it is"
circumstance.Hermione
turned abruptly heading for the boys dorm before a tight hand caught
her around her elbow."Don't,
Granger, you'll only do more harm than good."She
turned to look at him incredulously, " How can they let things like
this happen?"Severus
let go of her immediately, "Who?""The
Professors, Dumbledore, your parents. No one…"Severus,
she could see seemed to close down completely as if erecting a brick
wall between them. " I assure you that I can handle myself. This is
your second day here you'll get use to the way things work. As for
my parents," he said, speaking very quietly. "they've always
taught me the importance of taking the necessary steps to ensure my
own well-being."" I
refuse to except that." she said shaking her head. " It be
different if everyone were treated this way, but it's only you. The
way Slughorn ignored you, Meadows taking away points because you were
six seconds later than Black. Your very own house abuses you,
Severus."" It
isn't your concern." He said sitting back on the settee, stiffly.
" It's only a matter of time before they succumb to sleep and I
will make my way to my own bed."" And
what of tomorrow? Or the next day?" she asked, fully realizing this
is exactly the kind of conversation she didn't want to get herself
into. "What shall you to then."His
nostrils flared the only outwardly sign that he was taking notice of
she was saying at all."As
I've already explained, it is none of your concern. Now, I thank
you for you assistance today, it is regrettable that you had happened
upon me in such a state. Though, in the future I would ask that you
not interfere."Hermione
went to open her mouth again, the word interfere was echoing through
her mind. He was right of course, she should have not interfered
today. Should not being trying to interfere now. Here she was worried
that Harry might disrupt the future when in the end it was she that
was possibly the most damage. She only hoped it had not caused any
irrevocable damage. With one last look to Snape, she pulled her gaze
from him and headed for the girls dormitory, and her bed, feeling a
sinking of her stomach at the thought of Snape sleeping on a chair
after such a miserable day.





--------




10.Reassure
me why do I feel as if I'm in too deep.Over the
next few days Hermione stayed clear of Severus Snape and all the
bedlam that seemed to follow him around. She had thought hard on
those words he had whispered to her and he was right, she didn't
need to interfere. So, she had turned a blind eye to the number of
occasions when he was taunted or pushed to the ground, while walking
in the hall. She made no move to speak to him at meals, where he
would sit alone hardly eating anything and scribbling forcibly on
what seemed an endless ream of parchment. In fact, it was good she
was making no attempt to talk to him. She didn't need to socialize,
with him or anyone nor did she need to impress her professors or any
other such rot. She was here to fix the future, and if she wanted to
return to her world, and have a war free world to return to, she
needed to find the Horcruxs with Harry. Only, Harry was currently
causing more trouble than need be. He seemed wholeheartedly
disinterested in the whole business of helping Hermione. She had
asked him more times than she'd like to remember, to look through
old texts and parchments with her, searching for any helpful
information at all. Though, he always seemed to have some other place
to be.So, it
was with a sense of resentment that she sat down to dinner watching
Harry chatting amiably with the Mauders on the Friday before their
first Hogsmead trip. Harry had planned to go with James and Sirius
into the tiny village the next morning, completely ignoring her
advice that his time could be better spent elsewhere."
You're no fun, Hermione." He had said to her before dinner. "
Sitting in the library isn't going to help us. I doubt there's a
book in there called, " 101 Ways To Defeat A Dark Lord." he
smiled playfully.She
looked at him nonplused. " No, but there are old Daily Prophets
that might give us some insight onto what a particularly dark wizard
may be up to.""Yes,
but still, there isn't much we need to know. We've already gotten
rid of the," Harry held up his fingers ticking them off as he spoke
quietly. " diary, the ring, that foul snake, the locket from the
grubby house-elf's cupboard, and we know for sure he never got a
hold of anything from Gryffindor, so all we need to find out is where
the chalice from Hufflepuff is, and if he ever got his hands on
something from Ravenclaw and we can pop back home destroy it and then
take out the seventh bit of Voldemort." He finished, looking down
to her with a triumphant smirk.She had
rolled her eyes at him then and stormed towards the Great Hall to eat
a bite before heading back to the library to indeed look for some
sort of evidence of where Voldemort might have hidden the cup.
Disgusted with Harry, who was laughing so loudly at the table with
Remus and James that his voice carried across the hall, she threw
down her napkin heaved up her bag and returned to the library.Climbing
the last few steps before the great doors of the library, Hermione
was surprised to see the Headmaster bidding her a good evening. He
kept walking until Hermione's voice stopped him." Sir,
could I have a moment of you time?" She asked quietly." Of
course, my dear." He smiled."Perhaps
in here, sir." She said indicating the small alcove to her right.
Dumbledore followed her acting as if there was nothing more in the
world more important than standing in the dim, small room." I'm
sure you understand the precarious condition I'm in, Sir. But, I
feel you may be able to spread a small amount of light on a few of my
theories."Dumbledore
watched her carefully over his glasses. Before pulling out his wand
and placing, she was sure, a silencing charm on the room. He nodded
for her to continue."You
see, Sir, the same dark wizard you've been hearing of is, indeed,
the same we have faced in my on time." Said Hermione, careful not
to give away too much. Though, she was sure that Dumbledore was privy
to much of what she was revealing." Only,
he is much, more powerful in our time than he is now. I'm sure you
are aware of Voldemort's' interest in Horcruxs."Dumbledore's
eyes widened before he spoke, "So it is for certain, he intends to
make one."Hermione
took a deep breath before moving on, banking on the fact that the
future Dumbledore always seemed so perceptive. " Actually, he
intended to make seven." In hindsight she would think telling him
was worth the look on Dumbledore's face."Seven!"
He spluttered, before stroking his chin thoughtfully and mumbling, "
Yes, I can see how that would appeal to him.""Exactly,
only we do not know if he succeed in all seven." She said feeling
for the first time a bit nostalgic for the Dumbledore of her own
time, explaining things to her not the other way round.Hermione
jumped, almost knocking the Headmaster into the wall. " You know in
the future, because you were told in the past…" she whispered
more to herself than to Albus."I'm
sorry dear?" he asked.She shook
her head before looking at him. " The past controls the future
because the future has already affected the past by us being here."
She could see the Headmaster looking at her questioningly. "You see
sir, you tell Harry this in his sixth year because you already knew
that he would need to find the Horcruxs before he could destroy
Voldemort. You knew you were…" She shut her mouth tightly almost
telling the Headmaster of his death. It all made sense. Dumbledore
knew he was dying so he told Harry all he knew so as to prepare him
for the fight that the Headmaster was sure to know to come because
Hermione had already told Dumbledore."Ms.
Granger you were saying.""Yes,
sorry, Voldemort, we think never gets to make all seven, well six
since the seventh bit is still apart of him. With your help one of
them was destroyed, and Harry has taken care of three others in our
own time." leaving out lots and lots of details she mused."We
also know that he was in search of magically powerful objects that
would tie him into the four founders strength. He has procured two of
the founders artifacts one was destroyed, as I mentioned before and
we know he never acquired Gryffindor's. However, we have reason to
believe that he has one from Hufflepuff. Though we have no clue where
it could be. Our future Dumbledore told us that he had stolen it from
an rich elderly woman who collected historical artifacts while he was
working for Borgin and Burkes.""Hepzibah
Smith." exhaled Dumbledore.Hermione
nodded. "Yes, sir, the very same.""Miss
Granger, I thank you for confiding in me, and yes I know exactly of
whom you speak, for I have, for sometime wondered as to the real
cause of her death along with a few others. What you have said has
made a great deal of sense.""Thank
you, sir, but we are no closer to finding the cup or any sign of the
last possible Horcrux than we were in our own time.""Miss.
Granger, I understand that if we were to destroy the Horcrux now that
it would have a significant effect for our future selves?""Yes,
sir, and I couldn't possibly fathom the depths of chaos it could
cause.""Then,
we shall have to find it in the past to destroy it in the future."
He said, smiling to himself.Hermione
felt like she could breath again."Thank
you for understanding, sir. Though aside from the cup, we still need
to find the Ravenclaw Horcrux if indeed there is one. We are unsure
if he ever succeeded in finding one."Dumbledore
nodded, "Yes, Miss Granger might you allow me to think on these
details before we go further?""Of
course, sir." She said to him as he removed the wards he had placed
on the hallway."Thank
you again, Miss Granger. I will be in contact with you soon." He
said pleasantly before heading off down the corridor. Leaving
Hermione leaning against the cool stone and feeling if she had just
started a avalanche of future events.





--------




11.
Strange how it seems like there's a mutiny brewing inside of me.Hermione
did not go the to Hogsmead the next morning. Instead, she sat outside
trying to read, only it was useless. A mantra of sorts had taken up
in her head, " What happens in the future will effect the past, and
want happens in the past sets the path for the future." It was like
the old riddle which came first the chicken or its egg, one could not
exists without the other. Hermione, closed her eyes, things were
becoming so complicated it sometimes felt easier to have just stayed
in the past or rather the future."
Argh!" Hermione screamed in frustration. " This is hopeless.""
Talking to yourself is the first sign of madness." said the cold
voice of Sirius Black.Hermione
spun around looking at him. " Why aren't you in Hogsmead with the
others." she spat, caught off guard.He
shrugged, " I got a detention this week and wasn't allowed to
go."She
grunted, "Doesn't surprise me in the least."Sirius
narrowed his eyes at her. " I haven't forgotten about that little
stunt you pulled on James and I." he said maliciously he said
fingering his wand." Yes,
well maybe you'll think twice for picking on someone two to one."Sirius
snorted, " You're going about all the wrong way. You're
treating Snivelly like a person, when really he's more of…" He
paused searching for the right word." disease
that needs to vaccinated." he finished triumphantly.Hermione
could feel the heat of anger surge to her cheeks. " How can you
talk about someone like that, what has he ever done to you?"" It's
more the fact that he exists, and you'd do well to stay away from
him before people start looking at you the same way." He said
turning around and heading back to the castle.Hermione
stood yelling after him, " Don't you dare tell me what to do."
she could hear him laughing. " You deserve every foul thing that
ever happens to you Black!"She sank
back to the ground fuming." He's
right you know." said a quiet voice stepping out of shadowed trees
behind her. She turned around quickly to see Severus standing to the
her left."You're
going to cause a lot of problems for yourself if you keep on like
that. Potter and Black are quite popular, and the rest of students
seem to agree with there assessments of most everyone."" I
don't care what they think. You shouldn't be singled out like
that, its pathetic that no ones even tried to put a stop to it."He
shrugged, " There's only two years left before I graduate. I know
that I'll have a successful future and Black and Potter will be
suffering when it comes time to leave Hogwarts. They're not
particularly talented wizards and they get poor grades. There time
will come."The color
in Hermione's face drained away. She felt ill, here was this young
Severus who looked so confident and revengeful, believing that his
time would come when he'd be the one getting all the appreciation,
the one with the power. Her mouth fell open, was that why he joined
the Death Eater's? He seen them as some sort of reward for all that
he had suffered for in school. A chance to be respected, to have
control over the people who robbed him of his dignity. She wanted to
put her head into her hands and scream. How could have Dumbledore let
it come to this for him?" Are
you alright?" Severus asked.Hermione
let out a long sigh, " I'm fine, just overtired."Severus
looked at her carefully trying to make eye contact. She blinked and
looked over to the left of his shoulder. She couldn't let him see
what she was thinking."
You're not at Hogsmead." She said trying to change the subject.He looked
slightly embarrassed, " No, I stayed back. There isn't anything I
need from the village." He said trying to removed a piece of lint
from his very thin and threadbare robe." Why
aren't you there?" He asked quietly."I have
a lot of work to do. A research project of sorts." She said
vaguely.He
nodded. " I understand." He said, and she could see he was
noticeably interested in what sort of project it was. " Are you
finding what you need in the Library?" He asked trying to keep his
voice casual.Hermione
let out a small laugh, " No, not really. This seems to be a bit
arduous for the Hogwarts Library."He
smirked. " Not something you can learn from book, then?"Hermione
laughed loudly this time. " I'm sorry." she said giggling.
Watching the future Severus sneering at her textbook essays and
answers, in her mind. " You just reminded me of someone, from my,
uh, old school."" Do
you miss it, Drumstrang?" He asked sitting next to her on the grass
careful to keep his distance.Hermione
smiled sadly, " No, not really. It's not a place where I can feel
like I could go back. Though, I know I'll have to eventually."
she finished trying valiantly to keep from crying." The
holidays, you mean?" he asked." No,"
said Hermione quietly. " my brother and I will be staying on at
Christmas.""
You're brother seems very different from you." he said so quietly
it sounded like he hadn't wanted to say it at all.Hermione
nodded, " Yes, but we have a few things in common. He's really
not a bad person, he's just had a very troubled life. At our old
school, things were much different for him." Not unlike your own
time here, she thought to herself." He
seems to be adjusting well." He sneered, thinking of Black, and
Potter." I
think Harry is taking advantage of the fact that he's treated
differently at this school. He likes the positive attention."" It
must be nice to start over in a place where no one knows you." He
said looking out over the lake." Has
it always been like this, Severus?" Hermione asked gently.He
nodded, not looking at her. " It is what it is and there's no use
in complaining about it.""
You're very brave. I don't think I could have kept such a
optimistic view of things.""Like I
said," ignoring the compliment, " I know that my life will not
always be like this, its all about making your own way in the world."" What
are your plans after Graduation?" Hermione said, realizing this was
borderline stupidity to even discuss it.He looked
at her sharply. " I'll study for my Master's in Potions, and
Defense Against the Dark Arts."" You
want two Masters?" Hermione asked surprised that he'd want to
endure that much schooling." I
do." He said proudly."Your
parents must be very proud." She said before she could even think
how these words would effect him.Severus
seemed to shut down again, almost like a door slamming shut."I hope
your research goes well. Good day." He stood quickly heading back
to the school.Hermione
watched him walk away, his form getting smaller and smaller as he
neared the castle. She wished things could have been different for
him. He seemed like such a reasonable person despite all that seemed
to happen to him here in this time. Accepting his lot in life but
vowing to change it when he could. She remembered his book that Harry
had found in the their six year. The spells and notes in there were
brilliant even if at the time she was less likely to admit it. Even
Sectumsempra, such a bloody and gruesome spell that had almost killed
Malfoy was exceptional if albeit dangerous. Though now, she could
hardly blame him for coming up with a spell like that. If she was to
be attacked every hour of day by people that thought she wasn't
even worthy of being alive, she'd very much want to invent a spell
of protection, maybe not one that slaughtered a person, but she could
understand the motivation. Severus Snape was the product of those who
had made him what he was.





--------




12.
Welcome to the cruel world, hope you find your way.That
evening found Hermione and Harry sitting in Dumbledore's office
after receiving a missive for them to join him directly after dinner."Harry
and Hermione, thank you for meeting with me. I have some very
important information for the both of you that I thought better
conducted in my office than another closet." He smiled at Hermione
as Harry looked at her questioningly."I
believe I've found a lead on of the possible two Horcruxs."Harry
stood angrily. "You never said you told him." he shouted.Hermione
could feel herself getting annoyed. "Well, excuse me, I was under
the impression that you had pressing matters in Hogsmead today, and
had yet to see you, let alone inform you of any conversations I had.""Might
I interrupt?" said the Headmaster quietly.Harry sat
down at once. "Of course, Professor, I'm sorry.""Quite
alright, Now, I-" There was a knock at the door. "Come in."Professor
McGonagall entered followed by James, Sirius, and Severus. Who
Hermione could see was clutching his side and pinching the bridge
between his nose, to, no doubt, stop the bleeding. James and Sirius,
she noticed seemed unscathed."Headmaster,
I'm sorry to intrude, but these boys have been fighting again."
she said stiffly, pushing Severus in the room harder, Hermione
observed, than the other two of her own house."I do
believe we had this discussion before the end of term last year,
gentlemen? I thought it was settled that you three would either get
along or steer clear of each other." He stopped looking directly at
Severus, "I'm afraid that this is my final allowance for such
actions. You three will serve detention and I will write a letter to
each of your parents."Severus
gasped, "Headmaster, please there must be,""I'm
afraid not, Severus. Further more, and I'm surprised at you for not
taking our last conversation on the subject seriously, if you are
caught fighting again, it will be expulsion."Hermione
jumped to her feet. "Aren't you going to even ask what happened?
I've been here for a week Headmaster, and I've seen those two
attack him on several occasions when he warranted no such attack.""Will
you be quiet, this does not concern you." hissed Severus.She
looked to him; "It isn't right." she started."Miss
Granger, please be seated, Severus, is correct. The matter is closed;
forget it from your mind. Boys, return to you dormitory."Severus
wrenched his arm free from McGonagall grasp and stormed out of the
room, followed Potter, Black and McGonagall, the door shutting with a
snap.Dumbledore
cleared his throat. "As I was saying," trying to sound nonchalant
as Hermione seethed in the chair across from him."I have
reason to believe that a possible Horcrux might be residing in a
small town not far from where the orphanage in which Riddle grew up
in."Harry
nodded his head. "Do you know which one it is?" he asked."I do
not." he said slowly."Then
when do we leave?" Harry asked eagerly."There
are a few more details I need to see to, but if I might hazard a
guess, I would say by this Friday coming at the earliest.""Do we
know what type of enchantments might be attached to it, Sir?" She
added politely if not reluctantly."No,
I'm afraid not. That is my concern as well, which is why I think it
would be wise to wait to garner all we can before retrieving it."Hermione
and Harry nodded, both not the least bit eager to get themselves
killed or having Dumbledore end up getting killed twenty years before
he suppose to."That
is all for tonight, and thank you again for confiding in me." spoke
Dumbledore quietly.Harry and
Hermione stood before saying goodbye and heading down the marble
staircase. She was just about to make a left towards the dungeon when
Harry caught her arm."Do you
think it was wise to tell him so much." he asked trying to keep his
voice from being accusatory."I do,
had you been around earlier I could have explained my reasoning
behind it." She said coolly."I'm
sorry Hermione, for letting you shoulder all this responsibility. I
think I've let myself get carried away, and forgot the real reason
behind our stay here."Hermione
sighed, "I don't blame you, Harry. I'm happy for you; you
deserve your time here."He
smiled. "So, what's this theory then?"Hermione
began explaining to Harry how the reason Dumbledore could tell him
about Horcruxs in the future was because he had been told by her in
the past."It's
like your Patronus spell, the one that saved you and Sirius; you knew
you could do it because you already had.""I
understand." said Harry. "Though that was a bit of risk to take."
smiling good-naturedly."Some
risks are worth taking." she shrugged."So how
is everything," asked Harry as he walked her towards the dungeons."Fine,
it's a lot like before only, you know different." she finished
lamely."I know
what you mean. I miss him too." he said quietly.Hermione
nodded quickly trying to keep her tears from falling."How
are things for you? I have to admit I was surprised at your reaction
towards Snape." she said looking up at him.He
stopped squaring his jaw. "It's been difficult," he said
carefully, "but in the end I've just separated them into two
completely different people. I really can't blame him for something
he hasn't done yet" he paused then said, "He seems to have a
very rough time here."Hermione
snorted, "That's putting it mildly. They're really foul to him
all the time, and what's worse its not just James and Sirius almost
everyone treats him as if he isn't worth noticing, and I think his
home life is worse, if that's even possible."Harry
looked uncomfortable. "Do you think I should say something to James
and Sirius?"Hermione
shook her head, "You know you can't.""Doesn't
he have anyone here he talks to?" Harry asked."None,
that I've seen, he's mostly always alone. Except for myself the
only other person I've ever noticed talking to him is Lilly and
even she seems short with him, granted she's more polite about it."Harry
looked at her quickly, before speaking again. "She tried to stick
up for him once. He didn't exactly take it well.""How do
you know that?""Dumbledore's
pensive." Harry said not quite meeting her eyes. "Still though, I
know how it feels to be treated unfairly, to be bullied and I don't
envy what he must go through. ""I know
you do, Harry, which makes what happens to him all the worse."She gave
him a fleeting look before saying goodnight and slipping into the
empty common room, all except a very irate Severus Snape staring
daggers at her."Severus,"
she asked gently. She could see how angry he was, it seemed speech
was beyond him, as if one word would burst the dam of his restraint
and he would not be able to control his fury."You
have absolutely no right to…" He started before stopping."You
come here acting…" he balled his fist. " You know NOTHING of
me. How dare you meddle in my affairs? I never asked for your help,
nor do I want it. I'm not some charity, some poor helpless sort who
needs a twit of girl sticking up for them. What you did in the
Headmaster's office was inexcusable. Do you know what you've even
done? Do you have any idea how much that outburst is going to cost
me?" His voice had started fairly loud but towards the end it faded
off into a deadly whisper. He walked over to a desk with spare quills
and ink bottles and flung his hand across the surface sending the
clutter sprawling across the floor.She could
tell he had been trying incredibly hard to keep from upending the
rest of the room."I'm
sorry." she said quietly. "You're right; I never gave any
thought to how it might affect you."He looked
up at her, clearly not expecting this reaction and it seemed to
deflate the fight in him a bit."It was
unfair of me to get involved. Please though, don't think I pity
you, I don't think you're some sort of charity looking for my
protection. I just can't stand what they do to you. You don't
deserve it." she finished, walking closer to him."You're
a good person," He was watching her very closely. She was only just
outside of his reach and she kept inching closer with every word.
"Who's very smart and brave, who has more talent than any of the
rest, combined. You have every right to be upset with me; I don't
blame you in the least, but please know that I didn't mean to
insult you." She was a standing very close now, though enough room
separated them for him to move away if he wished.He
swallowed, no one in all of him memory had ever voluntarily stood
this close to him."Apology,"
he whispered sidestepping her and putting three paces in between
them. "accepted."She
watched him move away. "I don't mean to pry but,"Severus
snorted, "But you're going to anyway?"Hermione
gave him a small smile. "It's just that you seemed very upset
when Dumbledore mentioned writing to your parents." 
She said, at the same time watching him start to
clam up again, deciding to plough through anyways. "I mean they
can't be too angry, if you explain to them that it isn't you
instigating the fights."Severus
raised his eyebrow, "My father is a very strict man. He will be
most displeased with any news of my behaviour at school.""And
what of your mother, might she understand?" holding her breath and
wondering if she had pushed him too far this time."She
might have," he couldn't meet her gaze. "if she were still
around."She had
stepped close to him again, placing a small hand lightly on his arm,"I'm
sorry. I was impolite of me to ask." He looked up at her now; she
had her bottom lip worrying in between her teeth."It's
nothing, hardly worth mentioning." He tried to concentrate on
something else besides her mouth."It's
alright to let it bother you. I would be if it was happening to me."The smell
of her was fascinating; the closeness combined with the warmth of her
hand on his arm was making his head slightly dizzy."She,"
he let his eyes flicker to hers, "she left over the summer."Hermione
didn't dare speak; he was confiding in her and could tell what a
tremendous amount of nerve it was taking him to even stay in the room
with her."I knew
she was unhappy. As I said, my father is very strict." Her face was
so smooth almost, Severus thought, like still water. He could feel
the words leaving his mouth even though he had no intention of ever
telling her or anyone this only just moments ago.He looked
at her again, "I can't blame her, for wanting to go," Her hand
was moving in small strokes near his wrist, fuelling his insane urge
to keep talking. "but I had thought she would have at least taken
me with her."Severus
felt like a stone had fell into his gut. It was much harder saying
these things that had manifested themselves in his mind since the
second week of the summer holidays. It was inexcusable what his
mother had done, abandoning him to a father who had never wanted him.
The injustice of it all along with the overwhelming warmth he could
feel from having another human voluntarily touching him, he would
later recognize is what had caused his lack of judgment. When he
placed the pad of his thumb against her lower lip, smoothing out the
indentations her teeth had caused. He heard her gasp, and it was this
more than anything, that brought him back to his senses. He moved his
hand away quickly took one last look at her and fled to his room,
leaving a thoroughly bewildered Hermione behind.Please Review.





--------




13. Glory
and Consequence.Hermione
had spent the remainder of her weekend avoiding Severus Snape at all
cost, so it was much foreboding that she headed to Potions, Monday
morning, where evading him was simply impossible. She peered
cautiously into the classroom and breathed a sigh of relief, before
heading to her empty table. Just before reaching her stool her foot
caught and sent her floundering into what would have been a very hard
cold stone floor if it had not been for a stabling grip. She turned
her head sharply to see who had caught her, and almost immediately
felt the wind deflate from her lungs. Severus Snape stood next to her
not quite meeting her eye and letting go of her hand almost
instantly."Black
tripped you." He said by way of explanation before moving away to
take his seat.Hermione
looked over to where Sirius and James were gagging with laughter. 
"Bloody, gits."Hermione
continued to her seat, trying to keep an impassive look on her face.
She took the seat to Severus' left noticing that he kept his head
down trying to ignore her completely."Hello,
Severus." said Lilly cheerfully as she ambled into the room. "How
come you weren't in Hogsmead this weekend, I had thought you'd
want to go and see if the new copies of Most Potent Potions were in?"
She smiled at him."My
whereabouts are none of your concern." He said acidly, not even
glancing towards her.Hermione
kept very still focusing hard on a dent in the worktable. She could
hear the indignation Lilly was exuding, without having to look at her
at all."There's
no need to be so short with me." she practically spat."There
is when you insist on drivelling on like you're my keeper." he
sneered."He's
in a foul mood." thought Hermione, privately. Chancing a glance
towards Lilly, her face was red with embarrassment and anger, her
breath was coming in quick pants as if she was firing up for a
comment on what she really thought of his behaviour. Thankfully,
Slughorn interrupted any such argument."Good
morning class." He said jovially. "If you'd please take out
your books, we'll begin starting right away on the Draught of the
Living Death. It should take the remainder of the class to brew so
please begin, the instructions are on page ten and the ingredients
are in the cupboard." He stood looking out over the class. "If
you'll leave your essays from Friday on your desk I shall collect
them. Very good, now begin." he finished clapping his hands
together as the small group of six year students stood up to retrieve
the necessary ingredients.Hermione
let Severus get a head start before getting up; she made a long show
of looking for her essay and placing it on the corner of her desk. By
the time she had it out, Severus was already half way back towards
the table. Hermione quickly stood and headed for the cabinet,
noticing Lilly moving her chair further away from where Severus was
beginning to work. Hermione emptied her hands, setting up the tiny
vials of asphodel and wormwood, and started chopping the sopophorous
bean. She kept glancing at Severus and Lilly wondering if they would
keep the cautious silence up or start at each other again. However,
Lilly seemed perfectly content with pretending Severus was not there,
instead focusing on James' antics as he balanced the tip of his
blade in the middle of his palm.Next to
her Severus was busy crushing the sopophorous bean with the flat side
of his silver knife. When the tiny bean secreted an overabundance of
juice, he seemed unexpectedly pleased with himself, as if he was not
sure what might have happened. Hermione held back a grin; it was
considerably entertaining watching this adolescent version of her
Potion Master mucking about with valuable ingredients. Professor
Snape would have had a fit if any of his students had tried that.
Hermione began stirring the recommended fourteen times while she
surreptitiously watched Severus cross out the printed instructions in
his book and carefully write in his own. He stopped writing for a
moment looking pensive; he reached for his spoon, stirring counter
clockwise seven times then seemed to shrug and stir once clockwise.
The potion turned lilac instantly. A small smile tugged at his mouth,
before he wrote quickly over his textbook. He then reached for the
valerian root, but instead of using its shavings as indicated in the
instructions, he began dicing it into very fine pieces. He dropped
them in carefully before reaching for his quill. The effect was
almost immediate. Dark blue smoke billowed up from the cauldron
before the whole mixture turned into what looked like pink tar and
smelt like rotten eggs.The whole
class seemed to freeze, as Slughorn made his way to their desk."Experimenting
again, Severus?" his voice carried of tone of exasperation.Severus
did not answer; instead, he took out his wand to dispense with the
left over smoke."I'm
afraid there isn't any time left to start over. Please, clean up
your station. You'll have to try again next class." the Professor
gave him an irritable glance before moving away with a handkerchief
over his nose."Lilly,
what a fantastic job you've done. This is a fine example of a
perfectly brewed Draught of the Living Death." He beamed at her
before turning back towards his desk.Lilly
shot Severus a haughty smirk, as James and Sirius were clutching
their sides in laughter. Severus gritted his teeth and spelled away
the congealed mess with his wand. Angrily, he started replacing the
unused ingredients into their vials.Hermione
bottled her draught before cleaning up. When the bell rang Severus
was the first one out of class followed quickly by Sirius then James,
who, if their looks where anything to go by, where up to nothing
good. Hermione quickly hurried after them."I see
you got yourself a girlfriend now, Snivelly?" called James at the
back of Severus' retreating head.Sirius
laughed loudly, enjoying the spectators that were gathering to watch.
"Maybe she can teach you how to wash your hair?"Severus
turned around drawing his wand."Severus,
no!" yelled Hermione closing the distance and placing a hand on his
to lower his wand."You'll
be expelled. Please, just ignore them." Severus twisted his hand
from hers putting his wand back up his sleeve. He was breathing very
hard and his mouth was set in a thin line.James
laughed loudly. "Yes, Snivellus you don't want to be expelled."
he said in a mocking voice.Sirius
leered at Hermione. "She won't always be around to protect you."
he said pulling out his wand."What's
going on here?" called Slughorn, emerging from the classroom. James
moved to open his mouth but Hermione cut him off."Nothing
at all Professor, just on our way to class." She said politely
pushing Severus up the hall and away from Potter and Black.Once they
were a safe distance away, she slowed her pace. Severus still hadn't
spoke to her and she was becoming increasingly aware of the fact."I
apologize for last night." He said finally, though still not
looking at her."It was
uncalled for and I promise it will never happen again." He was
speaking so softly she could barely hear him."Severus?"
she said gently putting her hand on his arm to get his attention."Please,
do not touch me." he said quickly moving his arm out from under her
and stepping back out of her reach."Excuse
me, I'm late for class." he mumbled before practically racing
down the hall.Hermione
stood there speechless, before throwing her hands up in the air and
walking out towards Herbology.Harry
could tell by the way that Hermione was walking towards the
greenhouse that she was in a terrible temper. Her hair was flailing
behind her as if caught in a windstorm, her posture rigid and
unyielding. Everything about her, exuded anger, and Harry silently
pleaded it wasn't he who she was mad at."Hermione?"
He asked tentatively as she came near enough to hear him."The
whole lot of them can just get themselves expelled then." she
practically hissed."Who?"
asked Harry putting a stool in between them for good measure."I
don't need this aggravation, its bad enough with all I've got on
my own plate. If he doesn't want my help then he won't get it."
she snarled, pulling on her dragon hide gloves violently. " Don't
touch me, indeed."Harry
watched her bemusedly, " Are you going to explain any of this to
me?" he asked pulling on his own gloves and goggles to begin with
the lesson.She
looked up at him blinking rapidly, "Harry?" she asked shaking her
head, realizing for the first time that he was standing there. She
sighed loudly and seemed to shrink. "I hate this," she said
waiving her arm around her. "this control over things that might
happen if I say or do something I shouldn't. It just takes so much
energy to keep things in line, and on top of it all I think I've
thoroughly offended Severus."Harry
made a face at the name. "I doubt it's as bad as you're letting
on."Hermione
gave him a look of utter honesty. "It's bad, trust me.""Well,
what happened?"Hermione
snorted, "What didn't happen would be more fitting."Harry
raised his eyebrows."It's
not like that. Well, not like your making it out to be, at least."
she sighed."It's
just he was angry for my outburst in Dumbledore's office on
Saturday. I came in and he was waiting for me in the common room,
and, oh Harry, he was so upset. I told him I was sorry and somehow we
started talking about his mother and then," she blushed slightly
here and Harry's mouth fell open. "No, I already said it wasn't
like that. It's just, I don't think anyone has really ever talked
to him, as a person I mean, and I think it caught him off guard.
Needless to say, he left rather quickly, and then today." she
pushed a hair out of her face. "Sirius and James are always so
terrible to him and you heard the Headmaster if he's caught
fighting again he'll be expelled. Trust me the last thing he needs
is to be left with a father that doesn't care for him." she
looked at Harry hoping to see him agree but he was watching her as if
she had been speaking a different language. "I just want to help,
you know I hate to see people treated unfairly. I don't know what
to do anymore. What if I say something that completely disrupts his
future and cause all…"Harry cut
her off here finally getting an understanding of what she was on
about. "I've been thinking about that actually. You remember how
we were talking about Dumbledore already knowing certain things
because we've already told him?" he said quietly so the other
students couldn't hear him.She
nodded, "Yes, but..""No
listen first, my point is maybe you're making this more difficult
than it needs to be. Maybe the reason things happened the way they
did in our time is because we made them happen here."Hermione
looked at him questioningly. "I don't understand.""It's
like this, we're here to live in the past because well, we've
already have lived in the past. That our time here is the reason why
things happened the way they did in the future." She still looked
sceptical. "I'm just saying you're putting to much blame on
yourself. Things are going to happen they way there suppose to happen
and there's nothing more to it than that.""So it
doesn't matter what we do, because it's already been done?" she
tried; looking at him as if he had went mad."Exactly,"
he said but continued when he noticed she was going to start in on
him not mucking up anything by saying something to his Mum and Dad.
"and I'm not saying we couldn't do terrible damage if we wanted
to, or that we should start running around telling people what's
going to happen. I just think you need to let things happen and not
worry about interfering." he smiled.She
opened her mouth stopped and said, "No, it's just going to keep
going into circles if I try to think about it."Harry
laughed. Silence fell between them before Harry said gently. "It's
alright if you want to be friends with Snape. I think he could use
one."Hermione
smiled at him. "That's neither here nor there, since he won't
even look at me at the moment."Harry
nodded. "He has a lot of pride. I think that's what's making it
so hard for him when dealing with you. You do have the tendency to
make people a bit nervous."She
looked at him sharply."And it
doesn't help that you've got a terrible temper." he said
pointing a cactus root at her.Hermione
glared at him. "I haven't got a temper." she said very quietly.Harry
laughed as they continued to work at removing the spikes from the
cactus.After the
end of class, Harry and Hermione walked towards the Great Hall for
lunch chatting pleasantly about their classes and other mundane
things. When a third year came up to them holding a scroll in one of
her hands." I'm
supposed to give this to you." she whispered handing the paper to
Harry before turning around and hurrying into the Hall."It's
from Dumbledore." said Harry. " He wants you to come as well
tonight." he looked at her startled."Why
wouldn't he want me to come?" she asked angrily.A shiver
seemed to pass over Harry. "I thought it would have been like last
time, you know just him and me."She
softened a bit imagining what it must be like to relive, possibly,
the worst night of your life."It's
alright, Harry, nothings going to go wrong. We know it isn't.
Dumbledore stays alive and well for sometime."Harry
nodded, stowing the missive away in his robes."Right,
what happens, happens." he smiled. " See you tonight." he
called heading toward the Gryffindor table.Please review.





--------




14. Today
and tomorrow become one. Everything has come undone.Hermione
was exhausted by the time her last class had ended and all she wanted
to do was go to her rooms and fall dead asleep across her bed.
However, she was to meet Harry in a few minutes to go to their
meeting with Dumbledore. She was taking the stairs two at a time
trying hard not to jostle into any of the other students on their way
down to dinner in the Great Hall.Not for
the first time since coming to Hogwarts did she silently wish for
lifts, her knee was aching and the bag on her shoulder was digging
into her skin from all the weight of her books.She
rounded the corner on the six floor deciding to take a short cut and
avoid another flight of stairs, when a bright light blinded her,
followed by a loud bang. She blinked her eyes a few times trying to
see where the noise had come from.There
just a few paces around the corner from where she stood was Severus,
hanging by an ankle in mid air thrashing around and trying to get his
fist to connect with either Potter's or Black's head. He did not
look particularly fussy as to which one he hit.Hermione
groaned did they ever give him a break? Sirius' head turned
swiftly, his wand jerking towards her quickly before casting
"Expelliarmus."Her wand
flew out of her hand, the movement causing her to stumble, twisting
her already tender knee. She let out a gasp as she lost her footing
falling backwards, her head connecting with the hard stone corner of
the wall with a sickening thud."Hermione,"
Severus shouted. Another bright light and he landed in a pile of
robes.James and
Sirius rushed over to her ignoring Severus as he hurried to untangle
himself."Get
away from her." He hissed pushing Potter and Black away from her
limp form. Blood was starting to mat her hair."It was
an accident." Sirius whispered, looking down at Severus as he
kneeled in front of her checking her pupils and pulse, stopping
quickly to wipe his bleeding mouth with the back of his sleeve."Isn't
it always though, Black? A practical joke, a mistake; can't you
ever own up to your actions?" he sneered running his hands under
her neck.James
grabbed the front of Severus' robes. "Shut your slimy mouth."
Sirius pushed James out of the way, a panicked look in his eye. "I
can't get expelled, Severus." he said seriously.Severus
looked at him, with revulsion. "Still only thinking of yourself?
She could die!" Severus let out a humourless laugh. "Though
excuse me, I forget how little you care about such mundane things
like trying to kill a student," he hissed.Black
said nothing, still looking at him with wide terrified eyes."Get
out of my way." He said, heaving Hermione into his arms carefully
and heading towards the hospital wing.Sirius
called after him. "What are you going to say happened?"He
ignored them disappearing around the corner, and out of sight.Severus
kicked the door open to the hospital wing, "Madame Pomfrey!" he
bellowed.The
petite Mediwitch bristled out of her office looking bewildered.
"What in the world? Oh, goodness, what has happened?" She asked
gesturing towards an empty cot for Severus to lay Hermione down on.Severus
hesitated for a moment, "It was an accident she fell and hit her
head in the corridor. I think she may have a concussion, but I
couldn't detect any neck injuries." He said quietly.Pomfrey
ran her wand over Hermione's head, and neck, ignoring Severus. He
moved further back out of the way, watching Hermione's chest rise
and fall with each breathe. It seemed that nothing else was as
important as fixing his eyes on the measured rhythm of her breathing.
If felt as if something terrible would happen if he tore his glance
away, even if only for a second.The door
thudded open again, before Harry and Dumbledore strode through."Hermione,"
Harry called, rushing to her side."Please
Mr. Granger, I know you are worried but you must allow me room to
work," she said placing a comforting hand on his shoulder.Harry
fell back next to Severus, glancing up at him as Dumbledore walked
quickly over to where they stood."What
happened, Severus? Sirius told me he seen you carrying Hermione down
here." asked Albus starring at Severus suspiciously."I was
coming around a corner; we collided, and she fell before I could
catch her." He said simply still not taking his eyes of Hermione.Harry
growled. "How can something like that cause her to fall hard enough
to do this kind of damage?"Severus
shook his head. "Her head caught the bottom ledge of the wall."Albus
looked over to Hermione; her hair fanned out, slick and stringy
looking. The white of the sheet drenched in blood looking vulgar
under her head."Madam
Pomfrey says she'll heal. Though, she needs to give her a
blood-replenishing potion."Severus
nodded quickly, still gripped with the panicky need to make sure she
kept breathing."Come,
let's give her some privacy," said Dumbledore a hand on Harry's
shoulder, who started to follow the Headmaster out."No."
said Severus."Severus,"
he said firmly, "you've done enough. There's no need to stay.""I'm
not leaving," Severus said fiercely.Dumbledore
opened his mouth but shut it quickly, he looked to Harry who was
staring at Snape."If he
gets to stay then so am I," said Harry."Madam
Pomfrey, these boys wish to stay, they give me their word that they
will stay out of your way." Dumbledore gave Harry and Severus one
last look before departing from the room.When the
door clicked shut, Harry whispered, "What really happen?" to
Severus.Severus
drew his lips into a very fine line. "Exactly as I have said.""I
don't believe you," said Harry.Severus
spread his bloodied hands out before him and shrugged, his eyes still
fixed on Hermione."I
think they were messing with you again and Hermione got caught in the
middle," said Harry watching for some sort of reaction.Severus
ignored him as Harry studying him for a moment."Why
cover for them, why not tell the Headmaster?""I
would have been expelled," answered Severus."Not if
you hadn't started the fight, you can't be kicked out of school
for self defence.""I have
been attending this school long enough to know its politics, Granger.
You have only been here a little over a week. So believe me when I
say, I would have been expelled and Black and Potter would have
gotten away with a mere detention. They have done worse before and
received far lesser punishments." he had said this all slowly and
very quietly still keeping his eyes fixed to the cot Hermione lay on.Harry let
his eyes flicker to Hermione. "Do you think she'll wake soon?"
his throat was thick with concern. Harry looked back to Severus,
noticing his eyes had yet to leave Hermione's small form.He looked
to Hermione again then seemed to steel himself before saying. "If
it wasn't for you, I think she would have died." said Harry.Severus
continued to ignore him.Harry
watched him closely before quietly saying, "I'm sorry for all the
things they've done to you, and I know that might not seem like
much coming from me."He
swallowed slowly. "I just think things might have turned out
different for you if they had left you alone." Harry kept glancing
back between Snape and Hermione, wondering if she would wake up any
moment and reprimand him for speaking so cryptically about Snape's
future."You
don't need to apologize for something you had no hand in." spoke
Severus softly."You're
right I don't. Though I hope one day you can look back on this and
remember that I at least tried."Severus
suddenly tore his gaze from Hermione and stared at Harry."What,"
Severus started to say before Hermione opened her eyes wide and
gasped, staring at the both of them."Hermione,"
shouted Harry.Madame
Pomfrey turned quickly striding over to where Hermione lay."Miss.
Granger, you are very fortunate. There is no swelling," she spoke
sternly as if was Hermione's own fault for falling."You
may leave when you drink the entire contents of those vials," she
said pointing to a headache tonic and a blood-replenishing potion on
the bedside table. " I feel your knee was damaged more so than
anything, so it shall be tender for a few days, therefore no
strenuous activities and I want you right back here if you feel dizzy
or nauseous," she finished giving Hermione a stern frown before
turning around and heading for her office.Harry
walked slowly to the bed before sinking down at the end."How
are you feeling," he asked tentatively.Hermione
picked up the vials and swallowed them one right after the other."Like I
split my head in two," she teased.She
turned to Severus who was still standing near the wall."Thank
you," she said.He nodded
once before turning to leave."You
don't have to go," she called quietly as his hand reached for the
door."I'm
sure you want your privacy," he said softly before heaving the door
open.She
starred at the door for a few moments before Harry's voice called
back her attention."I
don't think you should go with us," he said faintly.Hermione
narrowed her eyes at him. "I'll be fine." she spat."Hermione,
I can't loose you. Not after everything." he said earnestly.She
seemed to soften a bit. "Harry, we discussed this before, I had my
chance to turn back. We are in this together now."He drew
in a shaky breath, "I knew you'd say that. You're too stubborn
for your own good."She
smiled and threw back the covers swinging her legs around. She set
her feet down carefully easing herself up supporting her weight on
her right leg."Think
they're still serving dinner?" She asked."I
doubt it, though I wonder why Madame Pomfrey didn't bring you a
dinner tray, she usually never let me leave without droning on about
how malnourished I was," He shrugged. "We can sneak down to the
kitchens," he said."I
don't think I could handle the walk." Hermione staggered towards
the door dragging her leg a bit behind her.He
nodded, "Well then, lets get you to your rooms and I'll go have
them send you something up." taking her arm and helping her out the
door.Please
review.





--------




15. All of
life is chance and is sweetest at a glance.Dumbledore
stopped Hermione the next morning outside the Great Hall."Miss.
Granger, how are you feeling?"Hermione
smiled, "Much better, just a little sore, sir"He led
her off to the side of doors to make way for the students to go
through."Miss.
Granger, I am sorry I didn't get to speak with you last night, but
could you please explain to me how you came to be injured." He
smiled at her warmly."I came
around the corner a little too quickly on my way to your office, when
I accidentally collided with Severus. My leg is delicate even at the
best of times and it gave out on me. I fell back and smacked my head
against the stone." she gave him a contented smile. "Surely
Severus explained this to you last night."The
Headmaster smiled faintly, "He has, though I wanted to verify his
version with your own."Hermione
gritted her teeth. She wanted to reach up and strangle Dumbledore.
Verify is his version! The favouritism was sickening. "What
about Black, what about Potter," she wanted to scream. "How come
you haven't asked them what happened? Why not ever verify their
versions?" she breathed in through her nose trying to calm herself.
Finally she spoke, trying to keep her face passive."Then
I'm sure you agree that if not for Severus' quick thinking I
would have certainly bled to death.""For
certain, but Miss. Granger please do not draw offence. It is not my
intention to imply that Severus was in any way liable," he said
peering over his glasses at her."I had
only wanted to make sure that no one else was involved. I am sure by
now you have noticed the animosity between Severus, James Potter and
Sirius Black. Their disagreements can sometimes get out of hand,
pulling in innocent bystanders, if you will, but as you said, it was
only an accident."Hermione
nodded."Well,
Miss Granger I shall let you adjourn to breakfast with the reminder
that if you are still interested we can rearrange our previous
appointment for Wednesday evening, say right after dinner?""Of
course, Headmaster." she said sweetly watching Dumbledore head up
to the staff table for breakfast.With a
shaky breath, she heaved herself into the dining hall limping to
closest chair at her table. She looked at the food around her,
feeling suddenly sick to her stomach. Was it like this at Hogwarts in
her own time, the Headmaster turning a blind eye when it came to
Harry, Ron and her? "Of course it was," she told herself. All
those times sneaking out the castle, going into out of bounds areas,
leaving the school entirely. Her face coloured slightly, even luring
a teacher into the forbidden forest and having an angry herd of
Centaurs attack her. No wonder Professor Snape hated them. It was the
favouritism and preferential treatment of Dumbledore's Gryffindors
all over again. Her stomach rolled over and she pushed her plate away
from her."How
are you feeling?" Severus said quietly sitting down across for
Hermione."Cured."
she said smiling at him."Then
why are you not eating?" he asked gesturing to her plate of food.Hermione
sighed, "Because I'm ashamed of myself," she whispered.Severus
raised his eyebrows so high they almost disappeared into his
hairline.She gave
a half-hearted laugh, "Dumbledore wanted me to tell him what had
happened last night, seemed to think your adaptation was lacking."
she sneered, "I wish I would have just told him the truth. About
how rotten and dreadful Potter and Black were to you, how they always
are to you." she finished her hair falling in her face."I
certainly glad you didn't then." he said inclining his head to
her.Her mouth
fell open. "Don't you want them to treat you better?"He rolled
his eyes. "What I want is to not be expelled.""This
is about your pride isn't it?" she asked."It's
nothing to do with anything except disregarding them until I can do
something about it." He pulled out a book, opening it in the middle
and began to read."Revenge?"
she said her voice taking on a higher pitch.He peered
at her over his book, "If it comes to that."Hermione
looked like she wanted to argue her point more but decided it was not
the type of conversation to have with him. She picked up her fork
shuffling eggs from one side of her plate to the other, furtively
glancing at Severus."Sickle
for your thoughts?" she finally asked setting her fork down."I'm
reading," he drawled emphasizing the syllables in the word reading."Yes,
well it might look like you're reading but unless the author of
that book writes in minute script; you've been "reading" the
same page for the last ten minutes."He
glowered at her from behind his curtain of hair."If
your set on being nosey, then I might as well stop reading," he
said sullenly, closing his book and stowing it back in his bag.Hermione
gave him her best, "you-can't-fool-me-so-you-better-not-try"
looks.Severus
watched her quietly for several moments, making her highly
uncomfortable and silently wishing he had just kept reading."Your
brother said something to me last night in the hospital room that
didn't quite add up," he said folding his arms in front of his
chest and resting his elbows on the table."Oh?"
she said glancing down at her plate and trying to think of the
quickest means of escape."Yes,
he felt the need to apologize for all the irritation Black and Potter
have caused."She
looked at him quickly."Which
wouldn't have been a major cause of concern, given his relations to
you and your tenacity for apologizing for things you had no hand in
doing," his voice was calm and composed, though he kept his
relentless gaze fixed on her as he spoke."It was
the way he apologized, almost as if he wasn't speaking in the
present tense," he said tilting his head slowly to the left. "Any
idea what he could mean by it?"She was
going to kill Harry Potter, she thought, no better yet she would
throttle him first then kill him."Haven't
the slightest idea." she said shifting her eyes down to her plate
and taking a bite of her stone cold eggs. She forced herself to
swallow them before smiling at Severus.He seemed
to nod, barely the tiniest movement of his head. "Do you want help
walking down to Potions," he said pulling his bag onto his shoulder
and swinging his legs out from under the bench."No, I
can manage," she said reaching for her own bag. "I put a
lightening charm on my bag so it's not as heavy."This time
he did nod before turning from her. She put a hand out to stop him."I
wouldn't mind the company though." she gave him a small and
embarrassed smile.It
seemed like he was thawing out, from just a second before when he
looked as if he was ready to stride off ahead of her, rigid and
aloof.They
walked side by side for a few moments heading towards the dungeons
before he handed her a glass jar."It's
an essence of murlap salve; it should help with any stiffness you
might have in your knee." He had not looked at her when he said any
of this; in fact, he kept his head turned from her, most likely to
hide the two small smudges of pink high on his cheeks.She
opened the jar and a soothing scent engulfed her, "You've put
something else in here as well," she said looking up at him as she
replaced the jar.This time
he face teemed with embarrassment, "It's barbadensis to help with
scarring."A smile
broke out across her face. "That was very thoughtful."He
coughed before asking, "It was a slicing hex that injured you?"Hermione
nodded, feeling uncomfortable again with such a delicate topic of
discussion.Severus
opened his mouth again to speak before a shoulder careened in between
him and Hermione. Severus stumbled a few steps before standing
straight again. Hermione, however was bent double clutching her knee
the salve Severus gave her broken on the floor.Severus
stepped close. "Are you alright," he asked kindly bending down to
her."It's
still a bit sore. I'm sorry, I didn't mean to drop the jar,"
she said trying to rub out the ache in her leg."No
matter, I will get you more later," he said softly, waving his wand
over the broken glass. The jar repaired itself but the murlap was
gone.She heard
a snort to the right of her."So
when's the wedding, Snivellus?" taunted James, Black standing
behind him with a smug and triumph look on his face.Severus
went for his wand, still bent down next to Hermione."Don't,
Severus," she said looking at him square in the face.He seemed
to steel himself before standing up and turning his back on Potter
and helping Hermione up to steady herself.Hermione
held on to Severus hand for a moment getting her bearings before
taking a small step towards James."I'll
only ask you once," she said quietly, looking from James to Sirius,
"Leave him alone."Black
snickered and James let out a loud laugh, "You're going to let a
girl,"Smack!
Hermione's hand connected with James' nose sending his head back
with such a force he landed on the floor.Professor
Slughorn bristled out into the hallway opening the door for class."What
on earth happened to you, my boy?" he asked staring at James laying
on the floor his hands over his nose.Black
stepped forward angrily, his face purple with rage. Hermione quickly
sidestepped in front of him smiling as she said. "He tripped, sir."Sirius
stopped and gaped at Hermione, she raised her eyebrows daring him to
contradict her.He
gritted his teeth reaching down to help James up. Other students had
seemed to show up now, standing on the tip of their toes to get a
better view."Is
this true, James?" Slughorn asked.James
looked from Hermione to Severus before nodding, "Yeb, sir it ib
tru."Hermione
bit the inside of her cheek to keep from laughing. Severus seemed to
be having a difficult time as well; his mouth ticked once before he
placed on a look of indifference. He stood next to her placing his
hand under her elbow for support."I'll
take James to the hospital wing, Professor," said Sirius."Yes,
that's fine, everyone else inside please." Slughorn moved back
into the classroom as the other students followed him in.Sirius
glared at Severus and Hermione as he helped James up the stairs.
Severus looked at Hermione out from under his eyelids, his face lit
up in a triumphant smile."That
was brilliant."Hermione
could not hold her laughter in anymore, she let out a great big snort
before breaking down into giggles as Severus helped her into class.





--------




16. I have
seen enough to know that I have seen too much.Hermione
rubbed her eyes tiredly as she sat finishing her History of Magic
essay. She was the last one left in the common room, much to her
delight. She could hardly bare the sidelong glances and incredulous
looks that she had been treated to all evening. The rumour of what
had taken place in the dungeon early, spread rapidly throughout
Hogwarts. However, since only a handful of students were down there
at the time, the students made up their own sordid particulars; all
the same, the one about her casting an unforgivable before punching
James was really going too far.She stood
to stretch before the sound of someone emerging from the boys'
dormitory staircase made her stop and look up. Severus stooped
slightly to let his tall form come out from under the low archway."Severus,"
said Hermione surprised to see him. She had thought he had gone to
bed ages ago."Your
salve," he said holding up another clear jar. He slid it onto the
table next to where she was sat.Hermione
smiled appreciatively, she had been disappointed when the jar had
broken earlier."Thank
you, Severus." she said the relief palpable in her voice.She
unscrewed the cap quickly, lifted the hem of her skirt a few inches,
dipped her fingers into the heated balm and began slathering a
sizeable amount onto her throbbing knee.Severus
let his gaze fall away from Hermione's leg hastily."I hope
it is effective," he said turning from her and heading back towards
the stairs."Severus,"
she called after him.He
turned, keeping his eyes fixed above her head.She
looked at him, struggling for the right thing to say."I had
one of the house elves send up tea earlier," gesturing towards the
kettle and cups, "would you like to join me?" she said aware of
the blush creeping into her cheeks."That
would be agreeable," he said sitting stiffly in the chair next to
her. His eyes fixed on the fire to his right.Hermione
screwed the cap back onto the jar, already aware of the warmth
seeping into her leg. She leaned back against her chair."That
feels fantastic." she sighed."You
should wrap it at night, to keep the heat in." Severus flicked his
wand gracefully conjuring up a spool of gauze, and handing it to her.She took
it carefully from his hands."Thank
you," she said again, he nodded once before turning back towards
the fire."It
really was very thoughtful of you to make the salve." Hermione
delicately wrapped the fabric around her knee."It was
no trouble," he watched her loosely wrap her leg. "You'll want
to wrap it tighter than that, you'll end up with it around you
ankle if not," he said pointing to where the fabric was sliding
down her knee.Hermione
ducked her head in agreement unwrapping her leg before giving it
another go.Severus
rolled his eyes as she began haphazardly covering it."Let me
have it." he said sternly, plucking it deftly from her hands before
turning in his chair to face her.He placed
his hands lightly under her knee, winding the gauze tightly around
her leg, tucking the last inch up underneath the bottom to hold it in
place.Severus
ran his finger underneath the gauze stretching it a bit to give her
room for circulation. He let his hands still, hovering just above her
skin his eyes travelling the path her scar made from side of her calf
up and over before disappearing under the bandage.He looked
up at her, her lips slightly parted; she seemed to be holding her
breath."Who
did this to you," he barely spoke the words but they sounded loud
and raw in the room.Hermione
turned from him, it seemed indecent to be watched so thoroughly by
him and then lie at the same time."It was
an accident," she said quietly. "It wasn't meant for me."Severus
looked as if he would ask her who it was meant for, but instead slid
back in his seat and helping himself to the tea."I
apologize it was inappropriate of me." he said setting his cup on
the arm of his chair. She could tell by the way his back seemed to
straighten and his shoulders tensed that she had offended him."Severus,
it's not that I don't want you to know. I just, in the best of
situations, it is hard for me to discuss it. I just can't." she
finished, aware that he was building a imaginary wall between them
brick by brick, though no less solid, with every word she said."Please
its not that I don't trust you, you have to know that I do, and if
I ever could tell you these things I would." His face had went from
one of deep concern to that of total indifference.Severus
nodded, placing his cup on the table and standing up from his chair
ignoring her eyes on him."Please,
you don't have to leave." she said,"Goodnight,
Hermione." he said striding from the room up the stairs and out of
sight, leaving Hermione starring at the empty stairwell.The next
morning found Hermione walking drowsily to the Great Hall for a quick
breakfast before class. However, that was not to be as an irate Harry
Potter stopped in front of her."What
were you thinking? We have to be careful, she says. Don't bring any
attention to yourself she says, and then what does SHE do? No, you
weren't thinking were you, you weren't thinking what kind of
damage this caused what I'd have to go through afterwards.""Harry
I understand you are furious." starting to feel her own anger
rising."I
beyond furious, Hermione." he said seething.Hermione
shook her head, "Alright, beyond furious then. Let me explain,""I
don't need to hear it again, Hermione. What I want to know is why
all of a sudden you're starting fights and lying to teachers?" He
asked giving her such a dirty look that she would not thought him
capable had she not seen it herself."Starting
fights!" she shouted. The rest of the students were starting to
stare and she could see James, healed but his nose slightly puffy,
and Sirius smiling smugly at the Gryffindor house table behind Harry."You
heard me; it's all quite coincidental actually. You being sorted
into Slytherin and getting all cosy with Snape and now attacking…""How
dare you, Harry!" she hissed, "You think whatever you like, its
plain you have no room left to listen to the truth." she turned
from him storming out of the Great Hall whipping pass Severus and
ignoring him as he entered for breakfast."Hermione,"
he asked as she hurried across the floor towards class.She was
half way there by the time Severus caught up with her."What
has happened?" he asked reaching for her arm.She
wrenched it away before swinging around to face him."Harry!"
she practically screamed. "and Black and Potter, and Dumbledore,
and every other foul, loathsome, and bigoted, argh." she let out a
frustrated huff.Severus
looked slightly bemused at her outburst, "While I agree with your
sentiments, I would ask that you please clarify what exactly
happened.""He
accused me of," she blushed slightly. "He said I brought about
what happened yesterday, that I attacked James, wouldn't let me
explain, and just assumed it must have been my fault because his
precious fa- friends," she recovered quickly, "would never give
cause for such an attack."She gave
a strangled cry in the back of her throat, "How can you stand it!"
she said starring at him. "The discrimination, the contempt, the
out right hatred, while I notice it's generally you they seem to
fixate on; the other students in Slytherin seem to have a hard time
as well. It's horrible, this prejudiced thinking and looks of
mistrust, that all Slytherins must be dark wizards, just vipers in
waiting.""It is
the fate of our house," he said tearing his gaze from her and
smoothing down his faded robes, ignoring the comment about himself.
"You endure it and persevere."She shook
her head slowly."He is
angry, Hermione. Give him time to see he is in error and he will
apologize."Hermione
snorted, clearly, Severus did not know Harry very well."This
will not end quickly, he is very stubborn, and he sees me as a
personal insult now.""Then
it is his lost." he said quietly.Hermione
smiled shyly at him as the door to the classroom opened."Severus,
Hermione. A bit early today I see." said Slughorn good-naturedly.They
walked in taking their usual seats together. Severus began pulling
his book and parchments out when Lilly stopped in front of their
desk."That
was really horrible what you did," she said glaring at Hermione and
for good measure Severus as well.Hermione
schooled her face into a mask of confusion, "I don't know what
you're talking about."Lilly
gritted her teeth, "James was in the hospital wing for hours, his
nose all swollen." She stopped looking at Hermione waiting for her
to confess. Hermione kept starring at her.Lilly
huffed impatiently."I
found it hard to believe he broke his nose because he tripped,
especially since he fell on his back." Her whole face was red with
anger."These
things sometimes happen, Lilly," said Hermione.Lilly
looked ready to pounce.Severus
stepped closer to her, "You're making a scene. What's done is
done." he said turning back to his desk and sharpening his quill.Lilly
stared at him for a moment before hissing, "They were right about
you, I should have never wasted my time." She turned from their
table and took a seat where James and Sirius usually sat.Hermione
looked at Severus, his hands had stilled their sharpening and he
looked preoccupied, before resuming, carving his feathered quill into
a dangerous tip."Don't
listen to her, she's just bitter," she said soothingly not sure
how much good it would do, since Severus seemed to ignore her and go
back to writing in his book, waiting for class to start.Hermione
walked quickly up towards the Astronomy tower. She was running late
and needed to hurry or she would miss the bell, Professor Sinistra
had a habit of locking tardy students out of her class while she
handed out the quizzes resulting in a nice round zero for the day.
Hermione had never once been late for a class, though that was
largely due to her classes being relatively close together. Here
however, she went from Herbology out on the grounds all the way up to
the astronomy tower. Her knee, thank Merlin, was feeling surprisingly
fit since the salve Severus had given her and she was sprinting up
the stairs, slightly out of breath. She had just reached the bottom
of the tower and if she could manage the next twenty-three steps in
four minutes, she would be there just in time. However, like
everything else that had happened so far that day, it was not to be.
A hand shot out at her pinning her against the wall, her back
scraping the stones.James'
hand was tight around her throat."Where's
your beloved Snivellus now?" he purred, his face uncomfortably
close to hers. Sirius stood on the bottom step checking what Hermione
knew to be the Mauders Map."In
class, where I assume you should be." she said, her throat starting
to ache."You
think you're so clever?" his other hand was hovering just above
her thigh.Hermione
was very aware that she was in a dangerous situation. While she did
not think James would be the kind of person to despoil resisting
woman in dark hallways, she was not tempted to find out."What
do you want?" she asked with a hint of boredom in her voice, hoping
it would overshadow the shaking fear that she was sure he could hear."I can
think of a few things," he said teasingly, his fingers playing with
the hem of her skirt, his mouth close to hers and his arm crushed
against her oesophagus."I
think you should make up for your little performance yesterday, why
don't you kiss it better?" he said his nose nuzzling against her
cheek and his eyes flickering towards her mouth.She could
feel the fear starting to rise in her chest, the hair standing on the
back of her neck amplifying how frightened she was becoming. Sirius
had taken his eyes off the map and stood watching James."I
think it's the least you could do," he whispered. "Don't you
think, Sirius?"Sirius
grinned, "At the very least." he said with mock etiquette."James,
please don't. I apologize for yesterday, there's no need for all
this." she could hear her voice starting to rise higher, her
rational mind working quickly running the chances of James Potter
actually doing something like this, something so vulgar. Pranks and
jinxes were one thing but this was borderline inhumane. Sirius was
standing closer, watching intently as James ran his hand around the
rim of her skirt.Hermione
began to shake, uncontrollably. She felt more fear here than she had
any other time in her life, not even on the grounds of Hogwarts
fighting Death Eaters.Suddenly,
Sirius slammed against the wall, slumping down on the floor. James
turned towards him loosing his hold on Hermione, before he to was
pinned against the wall. Severus had his hand around James neck his
wand pointed brutally in his throat."I
swear if you ever touch her again, I will kill you," he whispered
in a deadly calm that denied anything but a raging fury. She could
feel the surge of barely controlled magic rippling in and around him.Severus
made slash in the air and James too fell against the wall before
sliding down next to Sirius.He looked
fearsome, Hermione noticed. Even his old and faded school robes could
not take away from remarkable figure he made. His eyes where hooded
and narrowed, his hair hung in sharp angles about his face. His
breath was coming in short uneven gasps, and his wand held tightly in
his hand as if ready to fight. It was the most welcoming sight she
could have imagined, knowing that this wizard had come to help her.Hermione
sank to the floor, half out of exhaustion and half out of relief. She
could not control the trembling or panicky tears that streamed down
her face.Severus
knelt next to her, looking worried and helpless."Did he
hurt you?" he asked.Hermione
shook her head that he had not.Severus'
hand lifted slowly to her neck, where bright red welts were beginning
to appear. He gritted his teeth."He
won't get away with this. I don't care if the Headmaster does
expel me, Potter will not go unpunished.""Severus,
no, please. Its over, let's just leave." she whispered her voice
cracking slightly.He opened
his mouth to argue but stopped quickly as he took in her pale and
shaken form."Come,"
he said softly helping her off the floor. "I'll take you back to
the common room."Hermione
stood unsteadily, gripping onto Severus as he helped her down the
stairs."Thank
you," she whispered starring at him her eyes wide and sincere.Severus
nodded, "I had tried to get here sooner. I was in class and if it
had not been for Pettigrew bragging about Potter getting the last
laugh I would have been too late." he said thickly placing his hand
on her back but drawing it away quickly when his hand touched
something wet."You're
bleeding," he said showing Hermione where her blood had dampened
his hand."It's
nothing, only a scratch." she steadied her hand against the wall
for support as she climbed down the steps."Hermione,
a scratch would not have gone through three layers of clothing," he
said sternly."Please,
Severus, I just want to get as far away from here as possible right
now. I promise you can examine me, call St. Mungo's if you wish,
just please, I can't stand to be here one more moment.""Of
course." he said. "Though the common room is too far, I know of a
place we can go."I am stopping there for
a few reasons, one, I really want to know what everyone thinks. All
of the reviews so far have been fantastic, thank you everyone. Two
and this is important, if you have any thoughts on the SS/HG
relationship I would love to know. I can see them going either way,
and young Severus would not mind a few minutes in a broom closet with
Hermione, if you know what I mean; teenagers!As I said before, a big
thank you to everyone who has stayed with the story and who has
reviewed.





--------




17. It
would not have worked out anyway; it is just another lonely day.Severus
stopped in the middle of a long hallway, across from the portrait of
Barnabus the Barmy. Had Hermione, not have been to the Room of
Requirement before, she would have thought Severus had lost his mind
as he paced, three times in front of empty wall, his hands balled
into fist and a look of deep concentration on his face. At the end of
the third turn, a door appeared in the middle of the previously
vacant wall."Severus."
she whispered, infusing her voice with enough shock to appear amazed
at what had just happened."I had
only just found it last year," he said gesturing her inside before
him.Hermione
walked in slowly and was stunned; the room seemed to be no bigger
than small sitting area. Hermione had only ever seen this room as the
practice location for the D.A, where it was tall and wide, full of
places to sit and books to read. Now, the only furniture that
occupied the room was a small camp bed with a side table and a wooden
chair. There were potions vials, a washbasin, and a few clean cloths
set neatly on the table, along with a spare uniform. Other than that
the room was completely empty, though, Hermione noticed, there did
not seem to be room for much more.Hermione
turned to Severus. He looked somewhat uncomfortable, and agitated,
when he caught Hermione looking at him he cleared his throat and shut
the door."I had
asked for the room to be a place where you would be safe and where I
could heal your injuries," he said, sounding annoyed, as if this
was not how the room should look like.Hermione
smiled, "Thank you," she said, some of the fear already draining
from her now that she knew she was a good distance away from Potter
and Black.Severus
moved further into the room, he seemed very bothered, and restless,
as if he did not want to be there."I am
sorry for inconveniencing you, Severus. I understand if you have to
get back to class," she said, embarrassment rising to her face.Severus
turned to her his arms crossing over his chest."It
isn't an inconvenience," he said gruffly."Well
you seem as if you'd like nothing better than to run clear from
this room?" she asked feeling her anger starting to rise, while she
was thankful that he had helped her earlier, she hadn't asked to
him to bring her hereHe
watched her silently, before standing straighter and letting his arms
fall to his side."This
is my room." he said, "Or rather it looks like my room at
father's house."Hermione
almost let her mouth drop; he lived like this at home?"It
wasn't always quite so sparse," he said sourly moving over to the
side table his hand touching the edge. It looked like he was not
going to speak again but then he said very quietly, "My father made
me dispose of the majority of my possessions after my mother left."Hermione
did not know what to say, "I'm sorry" seemed a bit lacking."Severus,"
she started to say."You
need to have your back looked at." he said clearly not wanting to
talk about his miserable life at home.Severus
turned towards the wall to give Hermione some privacy. She began
removing her cloak and vest. Pulling her left arm out of her sleeve,
noticing how much blood had covered the back of her shirt, she
wrapped the rest of her blouse around her chest and abdomen."Alright,"
she said as she sat down on the bed.Severus
turned to her and inhaled quickly."Is it
that bad?" she asked trying to keep the apprehension out of her
voice.There
were two deep cuts running parallel to each other down the middle of
her back in between her shoulder blades, blood still flowing."They
will suffer like this," Severus said fiercely. "If I have to
invent the spell myself, then so be it, but they will know this
cruelty personally."Hermione
gasped; Sectumsempra, that is why he invented it, because of Potter
and Black, because of her. Hermione had always thought the Half-blood
Prince had a cruel sense of humour, that he invented such curses and
hexes out of boredom, though coming to know Severus, as she did; she
now understood that it was not.She felt
the cool cloth against her back, making her aware of how painful the
cuts were. Slowly he wiped and cleaned her wounds, with soft slow
movements, rinsing the cloth after every stroke. She felt a stinging
that made her wince."Wound
cleansing potion, without billywig, regrettably." he said.She
smiled, his hands were soothing, precise and skilful as he slid the
fabric across her back, finally taking a dry cloth and patting her
skin. She thought briefly that the room might have it right. It was
not his old room that made her feel safe it was Severus. She felt his
wand against her back, as he began whispering a spell that sounded
like a song. She could feel her skin knitting back together itching
as it closed."Dittany
for any scarring; and you have some blood near your abdomen" He
said softly handing her a vial and a clean wet rag, before turning
again to face the wall.She took
the bottle from him swallowing the bitter grainy fluid then began
scrubbing at the spots on her stomach and chest where the bloodied
shirt had stained her. Hermione pulled on the fresh white blouse at
the end of table, becoming nervous with each button she fastened. She
ran her hands across the pristine shirt, smoothing out nonexistent
wrinkles as she walked up to where Severus stood.She
placed her hand lightly against his back, whispering, "Thank you,
Severus. I don't even want to imagine what could have happened had
you not arrived when you did."Severus
had yet to turn, but Hermione could feel him tensing under her palm."Hermione,
things would have never progressed as far as they have, had you not
been caught in the middle of this dispute." He had not turned from
the wall but his head bent slightly towards her while he spoke. "I
take full responsibility for your injuries.""Severus,
this isn't your fault. If I blame anyone, besides Potter and Black,
it is Dumbledore. He has let things go beyond that of a normal
rivalry." Hermione had slipped through the gap in between him and
the wall.Severus
stared down at his eyes fierce. "Be that as it may, you should not
have to endure the repercussions of such animosity."Hermione
was aware of how warm the room was feeling, she felt nervousness in
her stomach and was finding it hard to concentrate on anything
besides how close Severus was to her. She needed to leave; she needed
to be in the coolness of the hallway, and clear her head."Hermione."
Severus sounded strangled as if her name was catching in his throat.
He stepped closer, moving his hand up to her neck; she felt a wave of
heat as his body came near.Hermione's
head felt heavy, her stomach seemed full and empty all at once."I can
do nothing for these," he whispered, deeply. She could feel the
presence of his touch as his hand hovered just out of reach.Hermione
felt her eyes close; his whole presence seemed to be pulling on her.
Like a great magnet in the centre of his chest drawing her towards
him.Severus'
hand quivered right above the top of her shirt collar, his eyes fixed
heatedly on her face. With a tentative finger, he made the faintest
of touches down the length of her throat. Hermione felt the touch so
brilliantly, as if it had been magnified by a thousand. Her eyes
snapped open and heart thudded painfully in her chest.Severus
seemed to recoil, as if he too had been shocked. He took a step back
and deep breath.A bell
sounded, loudly in the room, making Hermione jump."I
would prefer to walk you to class," he said straightening up and
smoothing down his robes, his voice low and steady. "I would not
put it past Potter to try again."Hermione
nodded; "If it isn't too much trouble," she said walking slowly
towards the door.Severus
followed her out, the door shutting and disappearing behind them.Severus
had not spoken to Hermione the entire walk to class, more than that;
he had not even glanced at her. She thought briefly that yesterday,
this might have given her cause for concern, but now after what had
happened in the Room of Requirement, or rather, Hermione thought
mockingly, what hadn't happen, she was quite relieved. She didn't
even know what to say, let alone have the capacity to speak it. She
continued the hurried pace to Defence Against the Dark Arts class
feeling like she had lived two days already instead of just an
afternoon.Rounding
a corner Hermione stopped suddenly, feeling the colour drain from her
face. Sirius and James stood there with Harry, Remus and Peter
leaning their backs against a wall out side of class. Severus seemed
to notice Hermione's disappearance from his side, because he too
stopped and turned back towards her."Hermione,
listen to me, I will not let them touch you." he said so
frantically she was taken aback at the steeliness in his voice.He began
walking again, before Hermione's hand shot out gripping onto his
arm tightlyThey
neared the class just as Black, and Potter turned towards them.
Hermione saw the James had a bump near the top of his eye. He shot
her a look of contempt before turning back towards Sirius. Harry,
however glared at her outright, glancing from where Hermione's hand
was gripping Severus' arm securely. Hermione had the briefest of
thoughts that Sirius and James had already told Harry their erroneous
accounts of what had happened. Merlin only knew, what they might have
told him.Severus
placed his hand on top of hers before looking down at her. She let
her hand fall away."Thank
you, Severus."He
nodded, pulling his bag more firmly on his shoulder.Harry
seemed to take their separation as his cue that he could address her."Are
you still going to the meeting with the Headmaster?" he said
stiffly keeping his voice low."I
am." she said.He lips
thinned before he said, "He asked us to meet him directly after
dinner," he looked to Severus, "That is if you think you can
manage to walk there without your guardian.""Harry,
I would rather you didn't speak about Severus like that, if it
wasn't for him-""So
its Severus now is it?" he spat before glaring at Hermione. "You
need to figure out your priorities Hermione. Your forgetting your
place, and what we've lost in coming here. This is someway to treat
Ron's memory."What
little colour had returned to Hermione's face drained rapidly."Harry!"
she gasped, but he seemed to have said his fill because he had turned
from her and joined Remus and James in a joke Sirius seemed to be
telling.Hermione
could feel the tears beginning to pool in the corner of her eyes as
Severus stepped closer to her."Are
you alright?" he asked gently.Hermione
looked up at him her eyes glassy. "No," she said simply before
ducking her head and rushing into the classroom ahead of everyone.Severus
followed her but met with a sharp blow to the ribs instead. He spun
around to see James with his wand out, standing with Harry and
Sirius."You
might be safe now Snivellus, but you won't get away with that
little stunt you pulled," said James moving slowly towards the
door."I
want you to stay away from Hermione," said Harry his voice icy as
he and Sirius passed Severus on his way into the class.Severus
watched as they all made there way into class before he too entered."Ten
points from Slytherin," said Professor Meadows as Severus stepped
over the threshold, he did not even bat a lash as he moved purposely
into the room, intent on the empty seat next to Hermione, in the back
of the class. He could see where her head was turned towards the wall
occasionally using the back of her robe to wipe at her face. He sat
down heavily, pulling out his books as the Professor began writing
the notes on the board.Hermione
was furious with Harry, she could understand his anger about her
friendship with Severus, even go as far as to admit that he had every
right to be upset at the argument she had with James, but he had no
right to tell her she was marring Ron's memory. She had loved Ron,
had grieved terribly over his death, had even blamed herself for not
finding a way to save him, she would never replace him; could never.
Then for Harry to take the sides of complete strangers over her own,
never mind that he hadn't even ask for side, they were still
strangers to him, and while they may be his future family he didn't
know them, didn't know what kind of people they were, how they had
changed as adults. She wanted to scream, Sirius and James were
responsible for tricking Severus into going to the Shrieking Shack
during Remus' transformations. These boys were not the same men
they knew from their own time.Hermione
hung her head, she felt so alone here. She glanced to Severus sitting
to her left. His head bent over his desk scribbling hurriedly across
the parchment. What she would wish to be able to confide in him; have
some one on her side to help carry the burden.Hermione
took in a shaky breath, determined not to let Harry's hurtful words
bother her a moment longer. She had a dangerous night ahead of her
that needed her complete focus.





--------




18.
Between the darkness and the dawn.Hermione
waited with Harry inside the Headmasters office after he had stepped
out a moment, telling them to make themselves comfortable while he
took care of some last minute details.Harry,
Hermione noticed, was studiously ignoring her, though occasionally he
would covertly glance over at her. It seemed like a whole ten minutes
went by before he stood agitated and said."Hermione
you need to know Snape isn't what he seems. I know you think he's
this poor bloke everyone picks on, and at first that's what I
thought to, but Sirius and James have told me quite a few stories of
the terrible things he's done. All sorts of dark hexes and curs-"Hermione
rolled her eyes, "Yes, because James and Sirius always tell the
truth.""Hermione,
you need to be reasonable, this is the same Snape that murders
Dumbledore in twenty years. I think you should break ties with him,
while you can, before you end up getting hurt," he said looking at
her firmly in the eye.Hermione
jumped up her anger boiling in her veins, she reached for her collar
pulling it down to show the bruised markings that the covered her
skin."I
have already been hurt, and if it wasn't for Severus, it would have
been much worse. Or didn't your beloved Padfoot and Prongs tell you
about their little foray into the Astronomy tower this afternoon,
where James had me pinned to the wall hard enough to split my skin,
while Sirius watched on in anticipation?"Harry
looked uncomfortable, "They told me things got carried away, they
had only gone up there to talk, to warn you about what kind of person
Snape is.""Carried
away." she bellowed. "This is beyond getting carried away." she
gestured to her throat. "Carried away isn't spending an hour
having you skin healed back together?""Hermione,
you have to know that James and Sirius would never intentionally hurt
you like this, they were horrified at what had happened; came
straight to me and admitted to the whole thing. Told me they would
understand if I wanted to go to Dumbledore. I know you must have been
scared but please they…"She cut
him off, "These boys are not the same men you know!" she
screamed. "You keep telling me about Severus turning into a
murderer or about how he treats you in the future, but has it never
occurred to you that same could be true for Potter and Black; that
the sensible adults that you come to know in your own time were
arrogant prats in school. Even if what happened today did just "get
carried away"," she spat. "They still strut around this school
tormenting who ever they deem worthy just because half the time
they're bored!"Harry,
Hermione noticed, seem to deflate. "I am sorry you were hurt,
Hermione, but.""But,
you don't care; don't believe me?" Hermione shook her head
sadly. "Seven years, Harry, I've stood beside you for seven years
and you're taking their word, the word of two boys you've just
met, over mine.""I
haven't just met…" he started.The door
opened quietly as Headmaster Dumbledore walked in. Harry and Hermione
stood in front of each other anger and resentment wafting off them,
eyeing each other furiously."Sorry
to have kept you waiting, but if you're ready we can depart.""Yes,
Headmaster." said Hermione."Yes,
sir." said Harry shooting Hermione one last glance."Now,
I have procured a portkey for the evening. I had thought since there
were so many of us," he smiled. "It might be prudent for us to
travel together. That being said I want to establish a few rules that
are of the up most importance." he glanced at Harry who seemed
pale."You
are to obey me in all things, if I say to run, hide, or go back, you
must give me your word that you will."Harry
looked shaken, but nodded quickly."Of
course, Headmaster." said Hermione taking her eyes of Harry and
starring at Dumbledore."Now
let us come closer," he said standing up and pulling out a rusty
tin box that looked like at one time it held candies.Hermione
stepped next to Harry and grasped tightly onto the side of the little
container."On
the count of five then, ready, one, two, three, four, five."Hermione
felt a sharp tug in the centre of her navel, silently thanking
Severus for the salve; she did not even want to think of the pain she
would have been in otherwise. Just when Hermione thought the spinning
was going to fling her from the little portkey, she landed quite
untidily on a wet and filthy ground.Hermione
stood up trying to wipe some of the mud that covered her. She looked
around at the dingy abandoned street. There were five neglected
houses to her left with broken windows and boarded doors. No street
lights were lit, and only the glow from the street behind them gave
off any light. On her right there was a dense patch of forest that
seemed out of place as if someone had dug up a section of woods and
set it down in the middle of what Hermione guessed must be London, if
the weather was anything to go by."We're
just a few kilometres away from the orphanage in which Tom Riddle
grew up." Said Dumbledore softly."You
think he's hidden one of his Horcruxs in there?" asked Harry
pointing to the sinister forest ahead of them."Undoubtedly."
smiled Dumbledore.Harry
seemed to take a deep breath, steeling himself."If
you're ready," said the Headmaster.Hermione
and Harry followed behind him as he walked swiftly towards the
forest.The
instant they reached the edge of the woods, no sounds could be heard,
no birds moving about in the trees nor animals creeping; no traffic
from the nearby streets that they could hear just moments before, not
even the wind rustling the massive trees above them. Hermione pulled
her cloak more firmly around her as they all took their first step
into the shadows of the forest.As soon
as her foot hit the ground, she was met with complete darkness, which
was so thick it felt tangible. She could not hear nor see Harry and
Dumbledore; the dark was so permanent it seemed to invade all of her
senses, causing her to feel an overwhelming awareness of shrill fear
that something horrific would happen if she were to step any further
into the dark. She pulled her wand out, casting a lumos spell she was
certain would not work. Just as she had predicted, the light spell
had not dissipated the blackness. The crushing sensation of terror
welled up in her almost suffocating her. Every thought and feeling in
her whole body was telling her to turn from this place and run.She took
in a deep shaky breath keeping her wand out. She braced herself
before lifting her foot and taking another step into the unknown.
This time when her foot hit the ground the world around her was so
bright her eyes burned from the brilliance of it. She blinked rapidly
clearing the spots of colour that peppered her eyes. Finally, the
light seemed to fade and she could take in the landscape that
surrounded her.There
stood Dumbledore his wand out, head turning from side to side
scanning the dark forest. Harry stood to the right of the Headmaster,
the palms of his hands pushed hard into his eyes."An
effective enchantment," said Dumbledore when he noticed Hermione.
"Not many would have been able to withstand the compulsion to flee
when such a formidable presence was telling the mind that only the
worse would come if they were to stay on course."Hermione
nodded, as Harry said, "It would certainly keep the muggles away."Dumbledore
chuckled. "Yes Harry, at the very least."Hermione
glanced around at the small clearing they were in, there were trees
surrounding them, and in every direction, there seemed a possible
direction in which to travel."Headmaster,"
said Hermione, gesturing towards the trees, "which way?"Dumbledore
looked pensive for a moment, and then gestured towards two smaller
trees."Through
here, I believe." he said indicating for them to join him.Hermione
felt as if she had fallen into the frozen lake when she stepped out
from the trees. Her whole body was shivering and her clothes were
soaked. The icy wet that covered her felt slick and oily, she could
feel it seeping into her very skin, clasping itself around her heart
and lungs. She felt strangled, as if the cold was stealing away her
breath. She frantically looked to Harry and Dumbledore noticing they
were drenched as well.Hermione
placed a shaky hand to her head tapping it once with a warming charm
then again for a drying charm. She felt the pressure in her chest
lessen."Wwwhat
was th-that?" stuttered Harry as he too began casting a spell over
his body."A
warning, of sorts." said Dumbledore reapplying a warming charm to
his feet.Hermione
scanned the forest, taking in the eerie glow this clearing seemed to
have, like a dense fog only more ominous than any sort of fog she
knew. Beyond the fog, at the edge of the clearing she could barely
make out the trees that she knew to be there. It was if they had thin
black sheets of night hanging in front of them, only these curtains
seemed to be moving, breathing.At the
very end of clearing was a large rock raised high like a platform.
Hermione could just make out a small shadowed shape on the rock, but
the fog seemed to be growing thicker, obscuring her view."Hermione,
Harry please stay close. If I am not mistaken we have reached our
hidden Horcrux."Hermione
stood closer to Harry, glancing at him. He looked back at her, and
for the moment, all thoughts of bitterness or hurt seemed to vanish.
They were back to being just Harry and Hermione who had once again
found themselves in a very dangerous situation.Hermione
saw a movement to her left, she turned her head quickly but the
vapours seemed to be closing in around them, as if the whole forest
was shrinking. She kept her wand high in front of her staying close
behind the Headmaster.The fog
seemed to grow thicker, like walking through water; her legs were
beginning to tire. How much further, she wondered. At first glance,
the platform could not have been more than a few meters, but now with
the mist closing in on them it was hard to know what direction they
were travelling."Do
not stop," said Dumbledore quietly. "It is essential that you
keep moving, stay right behind me."Hermione
felt her head go slightly fuzzy, almost as if she were extremely
tired. If she could only rest for a moment, gather her thoughts, she
would be able to concentrate and what was it Dumbledore just said?She
looked over at Harry; he seemed bewildered, rubbing his eyes and
shaking his head for side to side, as if trying to keep himself
awake.A light
started to come into view ahead of Hermione; she peered around the
side of Dumbledore, straining her eyes. Fifth teen paces ahead of
them, she could see the large rock protruding from the ground.From
where they had started the rock looked more like a small boulder, but
here, up close, it was massive. The top of Dumbledore's head just
grazed the sharp edge."How
are we supposed to get up there, sir?" asked Harry his words
slightly slurred as if half asleep.Hermione
looked to the right of the rock, there were stone steps that seemed
to wind its way up to the top."Over
there, sir." she said quietly, even though her voice echoed loudly;
her eyes feeling heavy she pointed to the stairs."Well
done, Miss. Granger." said the Headmaster, politely, as he led them
to the bottom of the stairs. "Stay very close." he had turned to
whisper before starting his ascent.Hermione let her eyes scan out over the clearing, hoping the altitude
would afford her with a better awareness as to what they would face
on their return. She had her suspicion that what they accomplished so
far was nothing to what they would face once they had retrieved the
Horcrux. She let her eyes adjust to the unnatural light the fog was
giving off, but could not make out anything but shifting shadows the
haze seemed to make as it moved, covering the landscape like a heavy
blanket.They
curved upward around the side of stone, giving Hermione a brief
glance at the ominous trees behind her, the air up here seemed less
thick, and her head was clearing as the steps seemed to flatten out.There at
the end of the stone platform, where the rock had risen in a gentle
slant sat an ornate box, completely smooth, like black marble.Hermione
did not dare speak as Dumbledore walked over to it. He took out his
wand and let it hover just above the container. Once, he had stepped
back, Hermione felt she were allowed to address him, though Harry
beat her to it."Headmaster,
what is it?" he asked."I am
not sure." Dumbledore answered, before stretching out the fingers
of his left hand."Sir,
no, don't--!" started Hermione, her voice echoing loudly."I do
not believe the danger lies in opening the case. I believe once I
reach in to remove the item that is being guarded, it will be a
different circumstance entirely," he said smiling, before reaching
down and flipping open the container.Hermione
stood to the left of Dumbledore, Harry to his right, all three of
them gazing into the darkened box, that now stood open before them.Inside,
she could see a rather long and old wand. Hermione felt some of the
considerable fear that had settled in her stomach right before the
Headmaster had opened the box drain away."Well,
this confirms Voldemort has indeed created a seventh Horcrux," said
Dumbledore."Was
this Ravenclaw's wand, Sir?" asked Hermione."I
believe so," he said looking at her before reaching his hand out to
grasp the handle of the wand."No!"
said Harry. "Sir please, I don't think it is wise."Dumbledore
smiled, "Harry, do not be alarmed, while I do not underestimate
Lord Voldemort's resolve to keep his possessions firmly guarded, it
is my firm belief that touching this wand will not kill me, at least
not right away," he said smiling.Harry
looked very pale and shaken."However,
I am sure it has enchantments and curses attached to it that will
render me incapable of retrieving it, that being said you must both
make certain that you take it back with you. Once I touch it, I am
sure it will neutralize any dark magic affixed to it," he said this
all very calmly as if commenting on the weather.Harry
started to shake, "This can't happen again. Please, sir, I can't
let you di-""You
mustn't Harry!" shouted Hermione."Hermione,
I will stand by and let this happen!" he said sternly."You
remember the conditions on which I brought you both?" said
Dumbledore very quietly.Harry
looked up at the Headmaster sharply his eyes wide and terrified."You
don't understand, sir," pleaded Harry."Once
and for all, Harry, do I have your word?" he said firmlyHermione
watched Harry struggle, he looked from Dumbledore to her and then to
the box lying deceptively in front of the Headmaster."Yes,
sir." he seemed to steel himself.Dumbledore
nodded once and reached slowly down into the box placing his hand
firmly on the handle.A
blinding light shot from the box engulfing the Headmaster completely.
His head was thrown back his eyes wide as the beam washed over him in
a steady current, like a great wave of white crashing over him. He
seemed to tremble all over as if the brightness was moving through
him.Hermione
looked out over the clearing and for the first time could see
properly and what she saw made her heart beat widely in her chest.
There where the fog had covered the land were hundreds of bodies so
close to each other you could hardly tell where one began and where
the other ended.With one
final burst of light, the Headmaster collapsed to the ground a bright
glow around him and Ravenclaw's wand firmly clutched in his hand.Harry
ran to his side, "Professor!" he shouted, kneeling down next to
him."Hermione,
I can't tell if he's breathing!" he said frantically looking to
her as she knelt next to Dumbledore.She
placed her hand to the Headmaster's neck."He's
alive, Harry, but help me get him up we need to leave. There are
Inferi down below."Harry
stood quickly looking out over the edge, to see where all the
servants of Voldemort stood in waiting."Hermione
you need to cast a strong incendio charm, it's the only thing that
will work against them," he said lifting Dumbledore half onto his
shoulder while Hermione hoisted his other arm around her neck.
Ravenclaw's wand secured in her vest as they made there way down
the stairs quickly.A raging
fire erupted from the tip of Hermione and Harry's wand, engulfing
them in a ring of blazing armour. The Inferi seemed to scatter making
a path for them to move through. She could see them returning into
the trees and the dense fog seemed to reappear as they neared the
gathering of woods from which they had entered.Hermione felt an icy hand, grip onto her leg right before she leapt
into the trees. She pointed her wand at the decaying hand and it let
her go, leaving a slick and icy feeling on her leg.She
helped Harry pull Dumbledore through the two small trees and
instantly felt the same engulfing cold as before. She quickly cast a
drying charm on the Headmaster and herself and continued moving
Dumbledore back towards the street.The wind
was starting to pick up in the clearing, whipping Hermione's hair
in her face."Hurry!"
she shouted as the wind picked up moving around Dumbledore rapidly as
if trying to pry him from their grip.They
were almost to the street just one more fence of trees. She heaved
Dumbledore more solidly onto her tiny shoulders, when Harry tripped,
stumbling and dropping to the ground, the Headmaster crumbling
crookedly to the forest floor."The
roots!" Harry bellowed. "They're moving!"Hermione
looked down as the tree roots ripped themselves from the ground
thrashing at them."Come
on, Harry!" she shouted before firing a slicing hex at a root that
was twining itself around Dumbledore.She
helped Harry gather the unconscious form of the Headmaster scurrying
the last few paces, throwing herself and Dumbledore into the
darkness. She regained her balance, as she felt the overwhelming fear
rise up in her again. She quickly buried a firm hand into
Dumbledore's cloak and flung herself into the street, landing hard
on the pavement.She
could hear Harry panting next to her, she turned to see him on his
hands and knees shaking and looking ready to retch.Behind
them, they could see the trees swaying and bending towards them.Hermione
hastily grabbed an old pop can that laid next to her in the gutter,
touched her wand tip to the metal and whispered "Portus.""Here
Harry grab hold." she shouted thrusting the can towards him and
reapplying her firm grip onto the Headmaster. She felt the familiar
tugging at the centre of her navel and seconds later ended in a heap
on the floor in the Headmaster's office.Hermione
leaped from the floor rushing to Dumbledore's side. The portraits
around the room were all moving and whispering hurriedly on the
walls."Who
should we call, Madam Pomfrey?" asked Harry his voice frail and
broken."No,"
she said putting a hand out to stop him from running out the door.
"Ennervate!" she said pointing her wand at the Headmaster.Instantly
his eyes seemed to flicker, opening and closing quickly before
finally they opened wide.His face
looked defeated and broken before breaking out into a huge smile."Well
done, you two!" he said as if they had just received a high grade,
and had not rescued him from a maze built by Voldemort to protect his
soul!Dumbledore,
Hermione noticed looked weary and tired. Where the streaks of his
auburn hair and beard had been earlier were now entirely white, and
his eyes seemed to be a crisper hue of blue."Sir
what happened?" gasped Harry.Dumbledore
sat up slowly resting his form against his desk."I
believe it was a hex to allow the holder to recover all but the
happiest of memories," said the Headmaster softly."Like
a dementors, Sir?" asked Hermione."Very
similar, only had you left me in the clearing, I believe I would have
relived those particular memories until I either went mad from them
or one of Voldemort's followers had come across my unconscious
form."Hermione
wondered briefly what horrible thoughts he must have dwelt on, but
knew better than to ask such a personal question."Are
you sure you are alright, Headmaster." said Harry. "Should we
call Madam Pomfrey?""No
that is not necessary, I think a nice large chocolate bar will do the
job," he said jokingly, but Hermione noticed that he had a pained
expression in his eyes."With
that taken care of, I must ask if we managed to retrieve the wand
after such an adventuress evening?"Hermione
withdrew it from her vest, "We did sir." she handed it to him.He
seemed reluctant to touch it, so instead she set it down softly on
his desk."How
should we destroy it, Headmaster?" asked Harry.Dumbledore
seemed contemplative for a moment before reaching down quickly and
grabbing up the wand. In one quick movement, he snapped it in two,
letting the pieces fall to his desk.Hermione
let out a little laugh, mostly out of relief that nothing more
daunting had come from the breaking of a Horcrux.Harry
let out a long sigh, "Now, for the cup." he said looking at
Hermione."Now
for the cup." she echoed, watching as sun broke through the window
bathing them all in warmth.I hope
you all enjoyed this chapter because it was terribly hard to write. I
have thought very hard about the possibility of a seventh Horcrux in
cannon HP, and to me a wand from Ravenclaw seems very plausible. If
you think about the other artefacts that came from the three
founders. A sword for brave Gryffindor, a cup for Hufflepuff who
would see a cup as symbol for friendship, a ring and necklace for
Slytherin might seem out of place, but I look at it like something a
king would have, something to show their blood and nobility, hence
all the pureblood propaganda he spouted. Anyways, I hope this is not
too far fetched; I really wanted to keep it believable.Thank you
so much to everyone who is reading and reviewing it is great to read
what you all think.And a
apology to all my SS fans out there, I promise he will make an
appearance next chapter.One other
thing, there is a "misprint" in chapter 17, at the end when
Hermione is angry and saying that James and Sirius had tricked
Severus into following them into the shrieking shack its actually
year six…sorry about that.





--------




19. I
would promise but it would be a lie.Hermione
sat starring out the window at the rain falling down on the grounds.
She had her books opened in front of her on the library table, and 
her essay for Arthimacy out before her, but was finding that she had
a hard time concentrating. Instead, she kept dwelling on what had
happened earlier.After
returning to the school that morning, she had crept down to the
Slytherin dormitories hoping to sneak into her room and get a few
hours of sleep before class. However, when she arrived she was
surprised to see a sleeping Severus in the armchair before the fire,
his head leaning to the side and his arms folded around himself.At first
Hermione thought, he had been locked out of his dormitory and anger
welled up inside her exhausted body. She had moved closer to him
taking the blanket off the trunk to cover him, determined to speak to
Professor Slughorn first thing about this ridiculous behaviour his
house mates where engaging in. When she had leaned in closer to him,
bringing the blanket up to drape over his shoulders, he startled
quickly his hands shooting out to her wrist.Hermione
had bit back a scream."Severus,
it's Hermione, it's alright, you've fallen asleep," she said
soothingly, watching as his head thrashed around trying to take in
his surroundings.His gaze
fell on her and he let his grip fall away, sitting straighter in the
chair."Are
you just getting in?" he asked softly, his voice thick with sleep,
his hair falling away from his face."Severus
what happened to your eye?" she shouted.Severus
swung his lank hair back over his face, hiding the bruise that tinted
his pale skin."It is
irrelevant," he said."They've
done it again haven't they?" she said her arms crossing
indignantly across her chest.He seemed
to let out a growl of impatience, "I had went to look for you when
you hadn't return before curfew, I was." he paused, "concerned
that Potter and Black had confronted you again."Hermione
felt her breath hitch. "You went looking for me?" she asked
softly.Severus
looked uncomfortable, as if he had wished, and not for the first time
that night, to have kept to his own affairs."I
did." he said standing to his full height and putting the chair in
between himself and Hermione. He noticed that she was very dirty; she
had bits of leaves and twigs stuck in her hair and a great streak of
mud running down her cheek."What
happened to your face then?" she asked."It was
my unfortunate pleasure to be caught unawares by Potter and Black.
They were out of bed slinking around the school again, no doubt
trying to find you, since I caught them near the library."Hermione
put her hand to her mouth, "Severus, I'm sorry. This is all my
fault. I had a meeting with Dumbledore and Harry. Time got away from
us, had I known you were waiting…" she let her voice fade, not
sure what she would have done if she had known he had been worried
about her.He
smoothed his rumpled shirt down, looking ill at ease."I
would say it is enough that you are unharmed but seeing the state
you're in," he swallowed tightly his eyes not quite meeting hers.Hermione
looked down at her cloak and vest becoming aware of the mud and filth
that covered her. What could she say, "Sorry been running around
London with the Headmaster, destroying Horcruxs, and fighting all
Voldemort's inferi." She could just imagine the complete mayhem
the future would be in if she mentioned even a tenth of what she had
done tonight."I am a
mess aren't I," she said softly, "We were in the forbidden
forest, serving detention." she lied."Detention
for what?" he asked his eyebrows high on his forehead."Dumbledore
walked in on me talking to Harry about punching James," she said
offhandedly.He was
silent for a long time, making her uncomfortable as he watched her."I
don't believe you." he said his eyes narrowing.Hermione
tore her eyes from his, "I am sorry for what happened tonight,"
she said trying to change the subject.Severus,
however, was not to be deterred, "In fact I think this all has
something to do with the time turner I saw sitting on Dumbledore's
desk that night McGonagall brought me in with Potter and Black."
said Severus, very quietly his eyes hard and cold."Severus."
Hermione choked out, her mind working swiftly trying to recall that
night, she had not even seen the time turner, though to be fair she
was angry at the idea of Severus punished for something he had not
done."I am
not as stupid as you believe me to be, Hermione, and while I
understand you are not allowed to tell me anything, I would ask that
you not lie to me." he said coming to stand nearer to her."Severus,
you don't understand. I," she started to say, but stopped."I
never meant to lie, if there were any other way for me to explain.
Severus, I had no choice, you know the rules.." She looked wildly
at him, willing him to understand.He nodded
slowly turning from her"Severus,
wait!" she reached for him, her hand seizing his arm. Her mind
heaving with all the things she should say to him, of apologies and
promises. Unfortunately all she could manage to say was, "Do Potter
and Black know?"Severus
gritted his teeth and wrenched his arm from her grasp."No."
he said stiffly before heading towards the dormitory; he stopped but
did not turn to her as he softly spoke, " I was fool to think you
were any different." and with that he moved up the stairs, as the
other students could be heard waking up for the day.Hermione
dropped her head on her hands letting them rest against the cool
surface of the table in the Library. She felt vile, shameful. Severus
had yet to speak with her, since that morning. He ignored her in all
their classes and at lunch, instead keeping his head down or
otherwise hiding it in a book.This was
the last thing she had wanted; he must feel so betrayed. The
resentment in his voice when he had told her she was just like
everyone else that lied to him, deceived him was so raw that even now
Hermione felt her heart clench remembering it. What could she have
done though, it wasn't like they knew each other very well, granted
they had been getting close, but not the kind of close where you
casually slip in a, "Oh by the way, I'm from the future." into
any of their conversations.She let
out a groan, which earned an angry Shh, from Madam Pince.Her mind
was worrying frantically, there had to be some way to fix this.
Hermione gazed out of the window again, thinking that maybe it was
for the better that Severus wanted nothing to do with her. She let
her thoughts drift before angrily snapping up her bag, "No," she
thought. "It wasn't better this way."She
needed to find Severus.Hermione
took the stairs as quickly as possible; she felt a frantic need to
find Severus immediately, as if there was not a minute to waste. She
had left it unresolved for too long. He had been right, she need not
have lied to him, he had always been respectful of her secrets
excepting that there were things she would not discuss with him. Had
she been forthright with him it would have saved her the humiliation
of causing him so much grief.She
sprinted quickly around the second floor corner before colliding head
first into a very solid chest."Oomph."
she grunted."I
apologize." said a warm and friendly voice.Hermione's
head snapped up to stare at Remus standing above her a shy smile
playing about his mouth."I'm
sorry I wasn't watching where I was going," she said hurriedly.
Anxious to locate Severus, dinner had just started she was sure she
could find him in the Great Hall."Right,
well I wouldn't take this Hallway," said Remus glancing over his
shoulder warily at the hallway behind him."Why
ever not?" Hermione had asked."Peeves,"
said Remus a little too loudly, "Yes, Peeves, he's at the other
end flinging dung bombs at students as they walk by."Hermione
gave him a disbelieving glance, "Right, I'll take the next
hallway down then." eager to keep moving."Good
idea," said Remus smiling at her.Hermione
turned quickly making her way down the corridor towards the first
floor. She kept her head long enough not to jump the last two steps
into the Great Hall, instead she took a calming breath before making
her way to the table where she could see Severus. He was sitting at
the very end of the dinning table by himself, normally this would
have been no different than any other night he ate in the hall, only
generally he had a book or parchment stretched out in front of him.
Now, however, he sat head bent over his plate, one hand pushing food
around with his fork.Hermione
sat next to him cautiously, he had stilled his movements but did not
look up."Severus,
could we talk?" she asked glancing at him out the corner of her
eye.He nodded
once, very quickly."I know
I have lost your trust, and it might be too late to regain it," she
said softly watching his body tense and he hands form fist next to
his plate."But I
would like to make the effort. I will try to explain things and
answer any questions you have but there are many things I cannot tell
you. " His mouth seemed to tighten."I
apologize, you were right, I didn't have to lie. You've always
been respectful to my privacy and cautious of what I was comfortable
with, I should have put more trust in you," said Hermione her voice
delicate with worry.Severus
had yet to look up from his plate, making Hermione feel that she had
already lost her chance to say these things to him.She took
a quick deep breath, "Your friendship means a great deal to me, and
I should have taken better care of it. I understand if you want
nothing more to do with me, it is no less than I deserve." she
said, watching and willing him to speak."I
would appreciate an explanation of what you can divulge of your
situation," he said steadily letting his head turn slightly towards
her.Relief
flooded through Hermione, she opened her mouth but stopped when
Severus held up a hand.He
withdrew his wand and surreptitiously cast "Muffiato" on a young
Slytherin sitting five seats down from them."You
were saying," he said stowing his wand back up his sleeve."Well,
what do you already know?" she asked pulling a glass of pumpkin
juice towards her."That
you've came here by way of a time-turner, and you've been
sneaking off with Dumbledore." he said sneaking as if it were a
filthy word making Hermione wince."I have
travelled here, but it was by accident, we, that is to say, Harry and
I, were not meaning to go so far back, only a few hours. However, we
were knocked into and the three of us.""Three?"
asked Severus.Hermione
swallowed, "Yes, three. A boy named Ron was with us, he was my, he
was my best friend, but he died." she swallowed again trying to
clear the lump that had formed in her throat."You
see, there is a war going on in my time, a terrible war. That is why
we had wanted to use the time-turner, to take us back to the morning
of that day, to give us more time. We were loosing, and badly.""We
were knocked into by someone while I had started the time turner, and
it threw the little orb from my hand sending spinning much faster
than I had wanted. We ended up here."Severus
watched her guardedly for a moment."And
what of Dumbledore, can you tell me anything about your meetings?""Not
much," she said giving him a small smile. "Only that he's
helping us get rid of some of the weapons the other side is using.""And
once these weapons are destroyed?" he asked."Then
we will return to the fight." she said shrugging.He was
silent for a long while, Hermione was convinced that at any moment he
would jump up from the table, telling her she was mad.She
started to stand, but stopped when she felt a gentle brush on her
arm."Hermione,"
he asked as she sat back down on the bench.She
looked at him, his forehead was furrowed and he seemed to be
searching for the words."Do you
know me, in your own time?" he asked looking at her so explicitly
that she was hit with the thought that he was a man of unwavering
intensity."We
have met," she said vaguely. "Please Severus, I cannot say more
than that."He
nodded, "I don't want any details, I know you give none," he
said almost silently. His expression pained as if asking this was
immensely difficult."Just a
simple answer," his voice going even quieter, as if his mouth was
begging him not to speak the words."Will I
be--" he paused, gritted his teeth, then said, "am I a good man?"The words
left his mouth in nothing more than a breath, but Hermione heard them
as if they had been shouted in her ear.She
looked at him sincerely, feeling as if all the weight of the world
had fallen onto her. "I believe that you are."A.N: I
love reviews… no really, I am not just saying that, I really really
love reviews. It is almost an addiction. I should also mention that I
hate odd numbers, and I have been increasingly miffed at having 59
reviews, when there are over 40 people who have the story on alerts,
so technically each chapter should have 41 new reviews…just a
thought….Anyways, I
really hope you enjoy this chapter, I'm quite happy with it, at
first I thought Severus was a little OOC at the end, but then reading
over it, it all made sense. Severus Snape is at heart a very insecure
person, he wants to be liked, and he wants to be respected. I feel at
this part of the story, he sees himself as a good person who finds
himself in bad situations, and eventually he will turn into the
bitter unrelenting man that we know in cannon. I believe that no one
is born evil or mean, they are what circumstances make them, or
rather what they let circumstances make of them. More to come either
tomorrow or tomorrow night, it depends on how busy the kids keep me…
they just have no sense of priorities.





--------




20. Here
is to the man with his face in the mud.The rain
had not let up its torrential hammering of the Hogwarts grounds for
the first Quidditch match of the season on Saturday. Leaving all the
students clumped tightly together under huge umbrellas, pulling up
their robes as they sloshed through small pools of water on their way
to the pitch.Hermione
and Severus hunched together under a large green and silver umbrella
that he was holding. They had just neared the Slytherin viewing tower
when Harry had stepped angrily in front of them, the bottom of his
robes filthy with mud and rainwater."You're
sitting with him?" he asked his voice loud over the driving rain,
but no less disgusted."Where
would you like me to sit? I am a Slytherin, Harry," she said
stepping closer to him so that his umbrella touched theirs.He looked
outraged, his head snapping between Severus and Hermione. Harry shook
his head angrily and stalked off towards the Gryffindor box catching
up quickly with Sirius, Peter and Remus. He let down his umbrella as
the awning covered them from the majority of the drenching rain.Harry
could feel his anger thumping rapidly through his veins. After, what
they had been through; after the other night, he had really believed
she would heed his advice. For all her blathering on about how
mistreated he was, she really was forgetting what he was; a death
eater who had killed, Dumbledore, and killed his mother, father and
Sirius as well. He might have only turned his wand against
Dumbledore, but it did not matter, to Harry. Severus Snape was a
murderer, from birth.A whistle
blew under them, though it was hard to see the blurry figure standing
down on the field. He could just make out the referee's face as she
stood between the two captains below.Harry
watched as the bluddger was released and the teams had taken to the
sky. He could see James, flying loops around the pitch carrying the
Quaffle ball to the Slytherins' keeper at the opposite end of the
pitch. He hurtled the ball, and Harry watched as it soared through
the air straight into the middle ring, scoring ten points to
Gryffindor.His
cheers tore from his throat, his frustration momentarily forgotten.Harry had
always loved Quidditch, he felt it was one of the few things he had
that let him connect with his father, but now as he stood watching
his dad play for the first time, he felt overwhelmed with happiness.His
happiness was fleeting as Sirius elbowed him in the ribs after
Slytherin had recovered the ball scoring twenty points."Look
at your sister, Granger," said Black, his eyes narrowing as he
pointed across the pitch to the Slytherin side of the field.Harry
squinted hard through the rain, but could not see Hermione or Snape."Where?"
he asked Sirius."Right
there in the middle, three up from the bottom."Harry
quickly counted the rows, and almost toppled over in his seat.There was
Snape and Hermione sitting so close together that he could barely
tell them apart."Looks
like she didn't take our advice." said Black slapping him
apologetically on the back."She
looks like she's getting quite friendly." spoke Peter his voice
high and grating."It
doesn't look as if they're sitting that close together, maybe
they're just talking," Remus said his voice shy and small behind
Harry's shoulder.Sirius
let out a loud laugh, "Is that what they're calling it now days
Moony?"Harry
could not believe his eyes, there had to be some explanation for them
sitting so intimately with each other. He wiped the water from his
glasses hoping that the shimmer the rain made was making it only look
like they were…he shook his head scrambling for any evidence that
would make what he was seeing untrue. Maybe Remus was right, there
was a whole Quidditch pitch between them, he gulped, hardly bringing
himself to think it; surely, Hermione was not kissing Snape.A huge
cry had gone through the stadium as Slytherin had scored another ten
points."You
not going to let him get away with this are you?" asked Sirius,
ignoring the game.Remus
seemed to fade back from the two, putting his full attention on the
players zooming past him.Harry
felt like he would be sick, he could not stop starring, as they sat
huddled together. He could see Snape's hair fall into Hermione's
face as he leaned in closer. A wave of nausea welled up inside him."Harry,
you remember what we've all told you about him. The things he does.
Merlin, even half the things he knows of the dark arts should tell
you what kind of person he is." said Sirius looking quickly to
where Snape and Hermione sat. "You can't let your sister get tied
up in that.""Who
knows what kind of things he'd try to do to her, he's a very
powerful wizard," said Wormtail, his beady eyes lit with
excitement.Harry
opened his mouth trying to gulp in enough air to keep himself from
retching. Over and over in his mind, he kept pleading with Hermione
to move, stand up, do something other than… Harry put his head
between his knees, wrenching his eyes from the terrible scene across
from him.The
stadium broke into a thunderous cheer as the Slytherin seeker soared
up in the air holding the snitch high above his head."Come
on," said Harry standing up suddenly; already heading for the
stairs.Sirius
leapt from his seat hurrying after Harry; Peter only half a step
behind Black. Remus stood slowly letting a few other students go
ahead of him before he to followed after them.Severus
and Hermione walked carefully down the steps, they were slick with
rain and mud and Hermione had to grab the rail twice to keep from
falling.The rain
had let up a little, but a light drizzle fell in its place. When they
had reached the bottom, she could see huge puddles of dirty mud
covering the ground."That
was a relatively short game," said Hermione conversationally as
they started there trek back to the castle passing the Gryffindor
stands on their way."You
shouldn't look so surprised. We have a very good team," he said
raising an eyebrow at her as he tried to gracefully step over a
massive puddle."I'm
not surprised; it's great we've won. I just thought it might have
lasted a little longer, all this talk of team rivalry," she said
moving a little further the left to sidestep another hole."We
will no doubt have a celebrati--" his words were cut off as a fist
connected with his chin."Severus!"
Hermione shouted as he landed face first into the mud.Harry
stood over Snape, his whole body tense with fury, Sirius and Peter
standing next to him, anticipation glowing in their faces.Hermione
ran to them putting herself in between Severus and Harry."What
are you doing?" she bellowed her voice high and shrill."How
could you, Hermione." he spat at her.Her face
twisted in confusion. "What are you on about?""I saw
you, half the school could see you," he screamed as Severus stood
himself up, though completely drenched in mud, his eyes murderous."Him of
all people, Hermione, what are you thinking? You can snog any bloke
in the whole school, and you choose that," he said pointing to
Severus his face grimy and his hair stringy.Black let
out a snicker before Hermione's voice exploded."SNOG!"
she snarled, "I haven't snogged anyone especially not in the
middle of a Quidditch match."Harry let
out a snort, "Then I suppose you two were just, what, discussing
potions homework with your tongues in each others mouth?""Shut
your mouth, Granger, don't you dare speak to her like that." said
Severus, his voice low and deadly, muck dripping from the tip of his
nose."Do not
tell me what to do, you pathetic…" he said reaching for his wand."Harry
that is enough, I don't care what you think you saw. I wasn't
kissing Severus, not that it's any of your business, what I do.""I
won't stand for you befriending him, you and I both know what he
is," he said.Hermione's
eyes flashed. "Leave now," she said deadly as the rain started
picking up around them.Harry
could see the smirk on Severus face as he stood next to Hermione. His
rage welled up inside of him before he swung again at Snape.His fist
connected with bone, as he heard a sickening crunch, flinging Severus
once more to the ground."What
is going on here," asked the hard voice of Professor McGonagall."Fighting
again, Mr. Snape, and you Mr. Granger…." she said looking at the
scene before her."No,
Professor, this is not Severus' doing. Harry attacked him, and
Severus has yet to raise a hand in retaliation."McGonagall
narrowed her eyes at Hermione."Be
that as it may, Miss Granger, Mr. Snape is not allowed to be involved
in a fight in any form whatsoever."Hermione
tensed her jaw, looking at her once beloved teacher."I will
not stand for his expulsion, even if I have to go to the Board ofGovernors
myself." she said her voice firm but polite, as Severus held a
handkerchief to his bleeding mouth and nose.McGonagall
seemed to sputter, before saying, "Miss. Granger you will not speak
to me in such manner.""Professor,
you have my fullest respect, but this injustice is uncalled for,
there are at least ten people you can attest to the fact that Severus
has done nothing wrong.""Hermione,"
said Severus quietly, uncomfortable with the scene she was making."No,
Severus, I will ignore it no longer." she said glancing at him
quickly.McGonagall
studied Hermione, her eyes fierce and sharp."Mr.
Granger, return to the castle immediately, I want you in my office to
discuss your behaviour." she said turning to a incensed and enraged
Harry who glared at Hermione before storming up to the school Sirius
and Peter following behind him."The
rest of you return to the school," the Professor said loudly to the
students who had gathered to watch."Miss.
Granger please make sure that Severus reaches the infirmary," she
said stiffly before stalking up the hill towards the school.Hermione's
breathing slowed, as she willed her heart to stop its incessant
beating. She looked at Severus, still covered in dirt, and blood as
it dripped from the cloth clamped around his nose."He had
no right," she said softly her voice full of embarrassment. "I've
lost track of the number of times I've apologized, but I am sorry,
for what he's done." she gave him a small smile.He
watched her carefully, "What did he mean; you both know what I am?"The
colour drained from Hermione's face."Severus,
it doesn't matter. He is wrong, he has always been wrong about
you.""What
did he mean, Hermione," he asked slowly and firmly taking the
sodden rag away from his bloodied face.Hermione
closed her eyes, "Severus, you asked me not to lie, but this is
something I can not tell you, at all."Severus
set his face into a detached stare, "Excuse me, I must see Madam
Pomfrey."He strode
quickly pass her, stopping short when Hermione's tiny hand gently
curved around his arm."Severus,"
she said quietly her eyes staring at a dirtied spot on his sleeve."You
are brilliant and one of the most talented men I've ever met."
She could feel the muscle underneath his robe tensing."You
are fearless and courageous and I am honoured to know you."She could
feel his pulse thumping through the thinness of his robe."What
he said, is a lie. He's the one who doesn't know you, never took
the time to try, instead he let his past dictate his future." She
looked up at him, trying to gauge his reaction. His head was turned
upwards starring at the castle high on the hill ahead of them.She
leaned in closer to him, "Please Severus, know that whatever he
might say to you," she stopped talking to take a quick breath,
"there is more to the story than what he might want you to believe.
He wants to paint you as a terrible man, because he does not approve
of our friendship." She looked up at him his face dirty yet still
proud. "He's still dealing with a great deal of grief and I
believe he's blaming you for it.""Me or
my future self?" he asked softly his head tilting down towards her."A
little of both I'm afraid." she said sadly."He
isn't your brother is he?" he asked.Hermione
laughed, "No, he isn't.""That
explains why he was so angry over our supposed kiss." he said his
mouth parting slightly."We
were never like that, the whole situation is very complicated, but
all Harry and I ever were or will be is friends." she snorted,
"Well I don't know how good of friends we might be now.""I
apologize if I have cost you your friendship," he said after a
pause his voice low and rough.Hermione
looked to the castle then slowly back to Severus, "He'll come
around. More than anything I think it's Black stuffing these ideas
into his head. He wants Harry to hate you, Severus, like its some
sort of private club he wants Harry to join." Hermione moved her
hand from his arm as she stood back; giving him some room now that
she was sure, he would not run.They
began walking to the castle, Severus' nose had swollen and a bruise
was appearing down the length of it."You
look terrible," she said pointedly.Severus
looked irritably at her, "Yes, well I hadn't planned on being
thrown into the mud, Hermione."A loud
thunderclap sounded overhead; the rain hailing down wickedly, as the
two ducked into an archway at front of the castle; their umbrella
left forgotten, sunken in a puddle down on the pitch."At
this rate you'll never heal properly," she said starring at the
water pouring down on clearing that they would pass through if they
tried to run for the front doors.Severus
stuck his dirtied handkerchief out under the awning letting the water
wash away the blood and dirt, before wiping his face clean. He placed
his wand to his nose and muttered a healing spell that was lost in
another loud roar thunder."Oh but
Severus, it won't heal straight." she said reaching a hand out to
halt his wand, instead her fingertips brushed against his cheek.Severus
seemed to freeze, his hand halfway in front of him and his head bent
low near her.In the
split second that she had before taking her hand from his face and
mumbling, "You'll have to have Pomfrey take a look at that cut.",
her mind had zoomed over the idea of kissing Severus Snape. She had
felt a very fierce need well up inside her as her hand had touched
his face, but she; always the sensibly Hermione, knew better than to
act on any such feelings, however strong.She gave
him a small smile, noticing how still and firm he stood."Should
we chance it?" she asked motioning to the pouring rain.Severus
seemed unable to speak, he nodded so slightly she could scarcely be
sure he had moved his head at all. She gave him one last fleeting
look before hiking up her cloak and sprinting towards the door.





--------




21. I can
barely survivea night in my mindHarry
threw the front doors open with such a force that it banged against
the wall rivalling the sound of the lighting striking the grounds.
His anger was so acute he could feel it like glass ripping through
his veins."Harry,"
Sirius called from behind him."Harry,
wait up," he said a little louder, but rage roaring in Harry's
ear drowned him out almost completely."Granger!"
He shouted clasping his hand onto Harry's shoulder."Don't
call me that," he spat snatching his shoulder from his grasp."Calm
down, mate." said Sirius."She
chose him over ME!" he yelled his voice hoarse and his face red
with bitterness.Sirius
looked slightly confused."He
won't get away with this," said Harry watching the rain starting
to fall harder as the students ran towards the doors.Sirius
smiled, "What are you going to do?""I
don't know, but whatever it is I'm going to make him pay for
EVERYTHING he's done."Black's
smile seemed to grow wider. "I have an idea, something I've been
thinking on for awhile. Something to really teach ol' Snivelly a
lesson." he said as Wormtail and the other students clambered
through the front doors and out of the rain.Severus
lay on top of his bed starring up at the ceiling, brandishing his
wand with deadly precision at the occasional fly that buzzed across
his line of vision. His thoughts dwelled morosely on what could have
happened earlier this afternoon, had he not been so reserved. He had
always prided himself on being impassive and distant, not parading
his emotions around on his sleeve, like some weak fool. He heaved a
sigh, aiming effortlessly at another bug that zipped past him; it
dropped to the floor heavily.The
problem was, Severus thought, that maybe he should try being a little
less standoffish, make an effort towards Hermione. Its not that he
didn't like her, he found her quite satisfactory. She was
attractive, witty, and very intelligent. Severus gave a half smile to
the empty dark room, and for some unfathomable reason thought him to
be worthy of her acquaintance without wanting something in return. He
couldn't remember if he had ever had a person just want to know
him, just for the sake of knowing him.He
flicked his wand and another insect fell.More than
just being his friend, she had chosen his side against her "brothers"
or whatever he was, thought Severus. The image of his face, etched in
anger, made Severus break into a smirk, but was quickly masked back
into a look of indifference when he thought of how close he was to
kissing her, instead he stood there like a prat paralysed with fear.
Fear of rejection and all other sorts of ridiculous things that now
seemed so petty. There was no need to feel like that with her, he
knew she held him in high regards, there had been a few times when he
had tried to decipher if she had been lying to him and why, using
legilimency. He had caught glimpses of himself, nothing substantial
but there had always been an overwhelming trust and respect
associated with his future self. However, there was one indication
that felt like apprehension possibly fear, that he could remember but
she had turned from him quickly and he had lost it. Severus had
chalked it up to nervousness of the situation when he had later found
out where, or rather when, she had come from. Thinking it might have
been an apprehension of him possibly finding out the role he plays in
her life further along.It did
not matter really, thought Severus. It had to be something small; he
could not imagine himself ever doing anything too terrible. Whatever
the other students said about him, and some of the teachers, he was
still a decent person, even if he did read dark arts books. What did
they expect, he wanted to master himself in all the knowledge he
could when it came to the subject. Defence Against the Dark Arts was
fascinating, the thin line between what made people moral and
immoral. How some magic tested a wizard so completely on their
character, that it could cause surges of magic through them. Even
thinking of it made Severus itch to flip open his books and start
reading on it. He wanted to know it all. To Severus, his mind was his
most important asset.Somehow,
he knew Hermione understood that, she seemed so like him. Reserved
and gifted, she was the only one to match him in his grades, not even
Lilly seemed to score higher than her, much to her irritation, and
something Severus was quick to notice. Hermione was someone
noteworthy, someone Severus would do well to count as an ally if
nothing more.His
thoughts lulled a bit, as he watched the shadows move across the
dormitory walls, it was still a bit early, but the room was dark
owing to the fact that he hadn't lit the candles.At ease
with the dark that shrouded the room, Severus began empting his mind,
slowly. One by one, he pulled forth his thoughts on the day before
banishing them deep down in his skull, like putting away his
possessions. One thought in its place, door flung shut on it,
tightly.He let
the day melt from him his whole body relaxing. Breakfast, Quidditch,
all packed away, the fight with Granger, the walk to the castle, shut
tightly. Conversations with Hermione out in the archway, he pushed
them into a tight corner adamant on shutting these thoughts away, but
it was proving difficult. As soon as he tucked it away, her face
blazed forth in his mind, making him frustrated and tense.He sat
up in annoyance. He needed to find her, she would give him no rest
until things were resolved. He stood from his bed slipping his feet
into his shoes and clambering out of the room.He was
sure to find her in the Library, it was still before curfew and she
wasn't one to spend time in the common room. He passed up the
stairs that led from the dungeons into the great hall watching as the
bright moon filtered through the front windows.Quickly
making his way up the staircases that would move him up through the
ground floor and onto the first, he took the steps two at a time,
letting his long leg lift him hastily towards the Library on the
fourth floor. He had just past a window facing out over the grounds
and the large Whomping Willow tree that had been there for as long as
he could remember, when he noticed its, usual flailing limbs had halt
abruptly. He stepped closer to the window glad of the full moons
light. The tree was perfectly still and then what looked like a small
shadow, crossed right below its base before the branches started
moving again.Severus
stood at the window watching with his eyes narrowed at the base of
the tree, surely, if it were some sort of animal he would see it when
it crossed over the moonlight that had lit up the grounds and most of
the forest.He waited
but nothing moved out from the trees undergrowth, leaving Severus
with a suspicious feeling that something had disappeared into
the tree. He moved on from the window still intent on speaking to
Hermione, he wasn't sure what he'd say to her, hopefully
something clever and captivating.He turned
the corner on the third floor and felt a nervousness in his abdomen.
He practiced calming himself as he walked onto the landing of the
fourth floor and turned right towards the Library.He pushed
open the heavy woodened doors deciding he'd act as if he had come
to check out a book, thinking it would give him a bit of time to
gauge her mood. Severus Snape was if anything patient.He walked
softly through the marble floors peering casually up and down the
isles letting his eyes sweep over the empty tables. She didn't seem
to be here, it never crossed her mind that she'd be anywhere else.
Hermione rarely went to bed early or spent any time in the common
room. She didn't seem to have other friends she visited with
besides her brother and she didn't seem to be on speaking terms
with him at the moment, nor any clubs that she attended.Severus
felt juvenile, practically running around the school for a girl, like
some sort of infatuated fool. He turned from the bookcases annoyed
with himself. What had he been thinking, racing up here to her to
what? Kiss her? He should have known better, accepted that he had
missed his chance; his thoughts darkened, maybe he hadn't even had
a chance. Who in their right mind would want to kiss him anyway. He
was mistaking her kindness for something that was completely
inappropriate. He was only thankful he hadn't tried to kiss her
this afternoon, and humiliate himself even more. He made his way
quickly back to his dorm, his head down and the displeasure with
himself engulfing him like a coat.Class on
Monday for Hermione was terrible, she hadn't slept well over the
weekend, owing to the fact that she felt incredibly lonely. She had
no family here, and the last of her friends all seemed angry with
her, and while she could understand Harry's ire, Severus' was
giving her cause for concern. At first she thought, he was angry for
her terrible lack of judgement on Saturday, but he hadn't even
mentioned it, instead seemed to ignore the whole thing. Then she
thought it might have been something the boys had been doing to him,
but for once they seemed subdued, which Hermione recognized was
probably a bad thing, but she just didn't have the energy to care.Between,
Harry's acting as if she wasn't there, and Severus' cold
shoulder, she felt completely cut off from the things that made this
whole situation bearable.AN: sorry
this took longer than the other ones, family events and such… silly
real life.Thanks for
reviewing!





--------




22. The
less you expect the more you will be pleasedHermione
woke Monday morning still feeling as if it had been run over by a
herd of Hippogriffs. Her body ached, her throat felt as if she had
swallowed a bag of ice mice and there was a chill running through her
body that Hermione knew for sure meant she was ill.It had
took all her strength to get dressed and walk up to the Hospital wing
for some pepper-up; or any potion that would make her feel as if she
hadn't spent so much time in the rain on Saturday.She had
to lean on the wall outside the infirmary to catch her breath before
she could push open the door and shuffle herself in. Berating herself
for not coming to the Infirmary on Saturday night when she first
started to feel ill.It was
still early in the morning but already the sun had started blazing
through the high windows of the sickbay, Hermione passed under a warm
shadow and let the heat of the sun waif over her before giving in to
a great bone-racking sneeze, which made her slightly dizzy
afterwards."Bless
you," said a hoarse and tired voice from the corner.She
turned to see a young Remus lying on a cot near the wall. His face
bore long scratches and his eyes looked sunken in."Thank
you." said Hermione politely, surreptitiously trying to wipe her
nose with a small handkerchief."You
look a little under the weather," he said shyly.Hermione
nodded, "I had hoped Madam Pomfrey could give me something without
making me stay for a physical."Remus let
out a small laugh, "She takes her job very serious. I know I've
been treated to more physicals in the last six years than I'd care
to remember." he smiled, but Hermione noticed it did not seem to
reach his eyes."I
hardly ever get sick, I think this," she gestured to her swollen
nose and watery eyes, "is from the awful weather I foolishly let
myself parade around in this weekend.""Yes,
the weather was exceptionally foul this weekend." he said quietly.An uneasy
silence fell between them."Well,
I better see if Pomfrey can fix me up before class." she said her
voice a little hurried.Remus
nodded as Hermione walked lightly towards Pomfrey's office door,
careful not to jostle her throbbing head.She
rapped twice on the hard door, before she heard the scuffling of a
chair and the sound of footsteps coming towards the door."Yes,
Miss. Granger?" asked Madam Pomfrey a little surly."I'm
sorry to bother you so early; I've got a terrible headache and what
seem to be the beginnings of the flu. I think some pepper-up will fix
me right up. I really don't want to have to miss classes' today."
she finished with a smile.Pomfrey
narrowed her eyes, "Are you a trained Mediwitch Miss Granger?"Hermione
shook her head, "No, Madam-""Then
why don't we let a skilled professional decide if you have the flu,
and do indeed need medication?" she said waspishly glancing
pointedly at Hermione's Slytherin uniform as she walked out into
the where the cots were and where Remus was lying in bed."Mr.
Lupin, are you feeling better?" said the witch with a sweet soft
voice.Hermione's
head throbbed, painfully. What had happened to the Madam Pomfrey she
had always known the one who had always made such a fuss over her and
well everyone she knew?However,
to be fair, she never doted on Draco, when he was hurt, Hermione
shook her head slowly, well he was such a spoiled brat and anyway
half the time he was faking. Hermione watched Pomfrey bustle around
Lupin. True when Montague had been finally found in the vanishing
cabinet there had not been much of a to-do. Hermione's brow
furrowed before she quickly let her face go slack for the ache in her
head. Was it because she was a Slytherin?"I'm
fine Madam Pomfrey," said Lupin "Just a little tired." he
smiled before glancing at Hermione.Madam
Pomfrey gave him a sympathetic smile before gently patting him on the
arm. She turned from him and glanced at Hermione her smile gone."On the
cot if you please." she said pointing at a cot under a long beam of
sunlight.Hermione
slowly shuffled her feet to the bed and gingerly perched on it,
squinting against the harsh rays of light that beamed in her face,
making her head ache with pain.Madam
Pomfrey waved her wand over Hermione clucking her tongue when her
wand tip turned different colours as it passed over Hermione's head
and chest."I
suspect you hadn't the sense to keep out of the rain? The whole lot
of you are nothing but trouble," she said huffily under her breath.Hermione
bristled at the Mediwitch's comments."Pardon?"
said Hermione her eyes narrowing.Madam
Pomfrey put her hand on her hip. "I want no back talk. So just sit
still and let me do my job," she said putting her wand back up her
sleeve and turning to a medicine cabinet. She pulled out three
different vials, before turning back towards Hermione."A
decongestant, Pepper-up, and one for your headache." she said
handing them to Hermione. "Drink them all quickly and I won't
have to write you a pass." She said giving Hermione a look as if
the only reason she was there was because in fact she was trying to
skive off class.Hermione
drank them all hastily trying to keep her anger in check.Madam
Pomfrey collected the empty vials from Hermione and headed towards
her office, grumbling about sneaky Slytherins and what Hermione could
have sworn was "Poor James." Hermione shook her head, aware that
James Potter had his smarmy grip around everyone in this school.She stood
up feeling much improved. Her headache had lessened and the throbbing
pressure had eased up from inside her chest. Hermione walked pass
Lupin's bed noticing his eyes were close and his head was nodding
to one side. He looked much more bedraggled when he slept, as if he
were ten years older than she knew he was.Hermione
sighed, thinking of the Remus Lupin of her own time, and how bravely
he had fought. She crept quietly towards the door before his voice
stopped her."I'm
sorry." he said his voice full of regret and sleep.Hermione
snapped back towards him. "For what?" she said."For
not trying to stop what happens to him," he said."Severus?"
Hermione asked.Lupin
nodded. "I'm glad he's found a friend in you." he looked away
from her towards the wall before saying very slowly, "I should have
said something to them long ago.""Why
didn't you?" Hermione asked curious despite herself.Lupin
shrugged, "I chose their friendship over what was right.""You
mean you chose what was easier?" said Hermione shaking her head.Remus
looked at her solemnly, before nodding. "I know it means nothing
after everything that's happened, but please tell him I'm sorry."Hermione
starred at him for several seconds, comparing the Lupin who had died
bravely protecting the battling student to this Remus who seemed shy
and insecure. "That's something you'll have to tell him."
she said then strode from the room.Severus
sat in the Dinning Hall eating breakfast between sidelong glances
towards the doors, willing Hermione to walk through them. He had yet
to see her since Saturday afternoon and her disappearance was
beginning to worry him. He had been angry at first, thinking she had
been hiding from him, out of embarrassment or disgust, but those
feelings faded into apprehension and concern the moment he walked
into the Great Hall and had not seen her face.Terrible
thoughts ran through his mind, mostly all involving her hurt by the
hands of Potter and Black in some dark hallway with no way to get
help. Classes would start in ten minutes and if she did not show up,
he would scour the whole of Hogwarts in search of her. Severus
sneered, and woe to her if he found her and she was not hurt.His head
jerked up when he seen a shadow pass by the table.Hermione
sat opposite him quickly filling her plate with eggs and toast before
the food disappeared back to the kitchens. Severus noticed she had
little colour to her cheeks and brow looked shinny with sweat."Are
you ill?" he asked more venom seeping into his voice then he had
intended.Hermione
looked to him startled a slice of toast poised in front of her mouth."I've
been feeling dreadful since Saturday night, but I've just come from
the Infirmary so it's not nearly as bad as it was." she said
smiling taking a ravenous bite out of toast.Severus
exhaled with relief, she was not avoiding him, was not annoyed or
disgusted. His belly tightened as he ducked his head towards the
table stirring his porridge, thinking about Saturday night. He shot
her a glance from under the curtain of his hair, thankful that its
length hid him well enough not to be caught starring at her. Her hair
was tucked up in a messy half bun and as she ate, her cheeks started
to fill with colour."Hermione?"
he asked willing his voice to keep from shaking.She
looked up at him."Would
you like to go to Hogsmead with me this weekend?" he asked terribly
aware of how foolish he sounded, and mentally kicking himself for
even opening his mouth.Hermione
starred at him and Severus wished he could oblivate her and pretend
nothing happened, Merlin what if she said no? His heart thudded, what
if she said yes?"I
didn't know there was a Hogsmead trip this weekend," she said
hoping to stall. Her mind filling up with the fact that very possibly
Severus Snape had just asked her out on a date."It was
on the notice board this morning," he said softly his feet shifting
under him restlessly, thinking that it might be wise to just stand up
and run right out of the Great Hall.Hermione
felt her stomach clinch; this most defiantly fell under interfering,
defiantly!She
looked at him and his hopeful yet doubtful expression. Hermione felt
that this moment would forever change the way he behaved around her,
fully aware that he would not open himself up like this again if she
said no."Yes,
I'd love to." she said swallowing back the apprehension she felt.Severus
nodded, shaking his hair in front of his face to hide the small grin
that emerged from his lips."Are
you through?" he asked hoisting his bag onto his shoulder.Hermione
nodded popping the last of her breakfast into her mouth and lifting
her own bag over her head as she followed him out the hall, neither
one of them aware of four set of eyes watching them walk away.AN: Sorry
about not posting sooner… I broke my one rule while writing Fan
Fiction…NEVER READ WHILE WRITING…. I totally got sucked into this
story called Daddy Dearest by Ms. Figg… it was superb and I had to
let it leak from my brain before trying to write again, otherwise I
would have mixed her tough and rough Severus up with our young and
impressionable one.Anyways,
I had fun writing this, and I hope you enjoy reading it. I really
like how venerable Severus feels in this.





--------




23. A ship
in a bottle set sail.Hermione
noticed that Severus had taken extra care with dressing this morning,
while she ate breakfast with him in the Great Hall. His damp hair
still bore indentations of the comb and his slacks and sweater looked
to have been pressed. Even his cloak, which was worn and faded,
seemed impeccable. Hermione had to admit that he looked very put
together and immaculate, nonetheless if his silence and the tensing
of his limbs were anything to go by, he was still terrible nervous."Good,"
Hermione thought, relieved that she was not the only one anxious
about the impending trip to Hogsmeade.She
scooped a forkful of eggs into her mouth just as Severus looked up at
her pushing a small package wrapped in cloth across to her, his hand
retreating to where he sat.Hermione
swallowed heavily trying to force down her half chewed breakfast."What's
this?" she asked picking up the small parcel.He raised
an eyebrow, "Before I found out about your situation, I had looked
through your file in Slughorn's office," he said softly a tinge
of pink filling his cheeks before he shifted his hair to hide them.
"I know it's a bit late," he said his voice going even quieter.
"Open it." he said his words heaving with nervousness.She
rumpled her forehead as she looked down at the softly wrapped gift.
Hermione carefully undid the small string holding it closed and moved
aside the cloth, revealing a tiny clear orb no bigger than her palm.
Her breath hitched, as she stared at the little flower blossoms
inside, there was a slight tremble near its petals that Hermione
recognized as miniature humming bird suspended just over the flower
its beak buried into the bud. She looked to Severus her eyes wide."Oh
Severus, this is beautiful where ever did you find it?" she asked
overwhelmed with the simple beauty of his gift. She had never
received anything so touching.He gave a
little cough, "I made it." he said his eyes not meeting hers;
starring just over her shoulder.Hermione
looked down at the globe. He made this, she thought, noticing how
precise and detailed it was; the glass smooth and cool against her
hands the vivid colours of the flowers, and the realistic movements
the tiny bird made, looking as if it hovered in the still air above
the petals; silly wand waving indeed, thinking of her former
Professors disapproval of Charms."Happy
Birthday, Hermione." He said quietly finally looking at her, his
dark eyes filled with a deep sincerity.Her face
broke into an enormous grin. "Thank you, Severus. It's
brilliant.""Are
you ready?" he asked.She
nodded folding up the little sphere and placing in carefully in her
cloak pocket, wrapping a few extra serviettes around it for
protection.He
nodded, standing up and allowing her to walk ahead of him.There was
a queue in front of the front doors of all the students going into
Hogsmeade for the day, bundled up in cloaks and jumpers.She
could see Harry, James and Sirius standing with Peter and Remus all
chatting excitedly. James had a snitch in his hand that he would let
go every few moments only to catch it before it fluttered off. She
turned away from them determined not to let them ruin her, she
smiled, date with Severus.Filch,
walked slowly to the front of the line pushing past the students
roughly, his cat sauntering behind him. He had a scroll of parchment
that Hermione assumed held the list of names of students allowed into
Hogsmeade. The line started moving quickly as he let them
begrudgingly leave the castle."If I
catch any of you sneaking dung bombs, stink pellets or any other such
rot back into the school it's detention." he snarled as the
students all but ran from out onto the grounds.Hermione
and Severus stood behind James, Harry and Sirius. Harry kept turning
his head back to glance at her and shooting Severus dirty looks.Hermione
did her best to ignore him until Black said in a stage whisper."Can't
understand why Snivelly wants to go into Hogsmeade. It's not like
he can afford anything there." he sneered, as the other two
chuckled.Hermione
felt Severus stiffen next to her, she slipped her hand into his
giving his a firm squeeze, before, turning back to the boys."I'm
surprised you've managed to stay out of detention long enough to
see the light of day let alone attend a trip to the village." she
said coldly, her eyes narrowing at Harry. How could he let them say
things like that, especially after knowing what Ron went through?Black
looked like he was about to say something but Filch interrupted him."If
you're going; hurry up I don't want you clogging up the
hallways," he said pushing Black abruptly out the front doors.Harry
turned around and hissed, "I see you've made your choice." He
shot Hermione a cold hard stare and said, "I thought I knew you,
Hermione."Hermione
shook her head sadly. "I thought you did too," she said quietly
as Harry hurried off after the Mauders.Filch
looked at Hermione and Severus, though not with his usual malicious."If
they give you any trouble Snape, just say the word and I'll slap
them with detention. It's a disgrace how much the Headmaster lets
them get away with." He said solemnly giving Severus a firm nod
before letting them leave.Hermione
was speechless Filch had never, in all the years she had attended
Hogwarts, spoke politely to a student. In fact, he never spoke
civilly to anyone except… she stopped in the middle of the pathway
that led to the school gates, except Professor Snape."Are
you alright?" Severus asked a few paces ahead of her.She
nodded and quickly closed the distance between them."I'm
sorry I was just lost in thought," she said softly."He's
a good sort to have on your side." Severus said looking at her in a
sidelong glance "He's not as bad as he might seem, a bit tetchy,
but he's helped me out of a few unfortunate situations." Severus
said looking at her before smirking, "Plus he hates Potter."Hermione
let out a small laugh. "I don't blame him, its hard see how so
many people can like him. He's so foul and Black as well. It's
unexpected, I never really thought of them like that in my own time,"
she said before whipping her head around."You
know them?" he asked his face pinched with disbelief."In a
way, I was acquainted with Black but I had never met James. I just
heard about him. I never imagined them to be so hateful." She said
hoping to skirt around the truth without outwardly lying to him.Severus
watched her closely before nodding, "Most people are hardly ever
what they appear to be, Hermione."She
blushed shamefully, "I don't know about that. You seem fairly
unambiguous, Severus.""I make
it a point not to pretend. There is no truth in a fantasy no matter
how much we want it to be there," he said forcefully.Hermione's
gut twisted wondering how he ever managed to be tied up with
Voldemort. How could he have survived for so long if he wasn't one
for pretending?"That's
a very sensible way of thinking," she said.Severus
looked at her his eyebrows curved high above his widened eyes, "I'm
not condemning you, Hermione. Your situation is very difficult and
unique. Potter and Black are fools who think they are above the rest
of us. They are the ones who act as if their time here is just for
amusement. They are the ones who live in fantasy. Not you." he said
his voice quiet but fierce.Hermione
smiled at him wondering, for what seemed the billionth time, what
made him the man she knew him to become."Let's
not allow them to ruin our day. They've already taken too much of
our time." she said cheerily. "Where should we go first?" she
asked gesturing to the village below them, already filled with
shoppers and students.He bowed
slightly, "Anywhere you wish."Hermione
gave him a soft smile. "I imagine this Hogsmeade is bound to be
different from the one I'm use to seeing," she said
good-naturedly."Perhaps,"
he said as they rounded the corner into the cobbled streets.Hermione
could still recognize some of the buildings, Honeydukes, and Dervish
and Bangs where still there. She could make out Hogshead and The
Three Broomsticks at the very end of the street right before the
curve of road. Other than that, everything looked entirely new."Would
you like to head to Dervish and Bangs?" asked Severus motioning to
the first shop on his right.Hermione
nodded walking with him up to the tall storefront. Books filled its
display window along with trinkets that were zooming about. Hermione
heard a tinkle from the bell that hung on the door. She tore her gaze
from the window and felt her heart freeze.There
emerging from the store was a reasonably tall man, with long blonde
hair. Hermione instantly recognized him as a young Lucius Malfoy. She
felt a panic flare up in her urging her to flee, though to her horror
Severus seemed to be on friendly terms with him judging by there
amiable handshake."Severus!"
exclaimed Malfoy. "It's been too long, how are you?" he asked.Severus
nodded politely his face calm, "It's good to see you, Lucius. How
is work at the Ministry?" he asked.Hermione
stood there watching the two wizards talking, wondering if it were
possible to slink pass both of them into the store. Unlikely, seeing
how Lucius seemed to be taking up the whole doorway, much to the
dismay of the patrons trying to enter."Lucius,"
said Severus nodding his head towards Hermione who looked cagey and
restless. "This is Hermione Granger, a fellow Slytherin."Lucius
turned his severely blue eyes to Hermione, "A pleasure to meet you,
my lady." he said taking Hermione's hand in his.Hermione
felt she was going to retch all over him. Lucius Malfoy fighting on
the grounds of Hogwarts during the battle was still vividly fresh in
Hermione's mind. She could see the two wizards blending. Young and
old melding into one unbearable and revolting image, watching as he
brandished his wand with deadly accuracy at Professor McGonagall and
Neville. Hermione jerked her hand back quickly, plastering an
insincere smile on her lips."A
pleasure to meet you as well, Mr. Malfoy." she said quickly.Severus
looked at her carefully."She's
top in our class, Lucius. Well, right behind me of course." he said
giving Hermione a small smile.Lucius
smiled at her, "How delightful, Miss. Granger. Tell me are you
related to Hector Dagworth-Granger.""No, I
am an exchange student from Drumstrang," said Hermione edging
closer to the door."Drumstrang!
A fine school." he said a note of reverence hitching into his
voice."Severus
you must come to the Manor this winter and you too, my dear." he
said politely, smiling coyly at Hermione, making her stomach seize
with nausea.He turned
back to Severus, "Much of the old crowd will be in attendance. It's
hard to remember that you were not in our graduating class, at least
not with your skill." he said emphasizing skill in a way that
Hermione felt chills run down her neck.Severus
nodded though he looked slightly embarrassed. "If I don't make it
this year, please give them my regards."Lucius
reached out to shake Severus hand again, blatantly aware of all the
people queuing up around him waiting to get into the shop."Keep
in touch, Severus." he said before turning to Hermione, "It was
lovely to meet you, Miss. Granger. Do try to convince old Severus
here to come for the holidays it would be delightful to have you
both." he smiled."I
bet," thought Hermione shaking his hand quickly before stepping
back and allowing him to pass.The
customers were shooting filthy looks at them as they crowed into the
store. Hermione felt as if she needed to sit down, the meeting with
Malfoy left her dizzy and shaken. She leaned against the window
trying to still her racing heart. Noticing that Severus was giving
her a peculiar look."That
wasn't the first time you've met him was it?" he asked his arms
crossing over his chest.Hermione
shook her head closing her eyes against the tight and painful feeling
in her stomach."We've
met on a number of occasions," she said quietly."I
don't suppose you can elaborate?" he asked his voice annoyed."Particularly
not about Lucius Malfoy." she said giving him an apologetic glance.Severus
stared at her hard, trying to keep eye contact, but Hermione shifted
her gaze down."I wish
you wouldn't do that," she said quietly. "If I could tell you I
would."Severus'
mouth fell open. "You know?" he asked."I
know." said Hermione, thinking that a "date" with Severus might
have been a disaster from the beginning.Neither
of them moved for some time, until Hermione felt Severus hand on her
arm."I
apologize, it was wrong of me to invade your privacy."Hermione
nodded using his grip to steady herself."Severus,
if I tell you too much, it could devastate the future. Most
importantly, it could ruin yours." she said sadly."You
have my honour, as a wizard, that I will not assault your thoughts
again." he said softly.Hermione
locked eyes with him again, confronted with the fierce truth of his
vow."Thank
you," she said quietly.Severus
seemed awkward, "So much for a pleasant morning in town."Hermione
smiled, "Then let us start over," she said. Before turning away
from him and walking a few paces. She turned back around and marched
back up to him."Would
you like to head into Dervish and Bangs?" she asked a pleasant grin
on her face.Severus'
lip twitched before he stuck his arm out to her, "After you."Hermione
and Severus had ambled through Hogsmeade most of the morning taking
in the sights and sounds of the little village. They kept up an easy
conversation, discussing potions and different books they enjoyed.
Severus seemed to becoming more at ease with her the more they
talked. Even occasionally letting out a low laugh when Hermione told
him about some of her less significant times at Hogwarts. Finally,
they reached the Three Broomsticks where Hermione suggested they head
inside before making the walk back up to castle. She noticed Severus
seemed to close down moving away from his affable mood from moments
before. Agreeing all the same to join her in the pub."We
don't have to go in," she said placing her arm on his, before he
reached for the door."Nonsense."
he said a bit more grumpily than usual, pulling open the doors and
letting her precede him.Hermione
led him to a booth near the centre."I'll
grab us some drinks," she said turning from him. His hand caught
her sleeve as he stood up."Allow
me." he said striding away from her quickly.Hermione
sat heavily in her seat wondering what had happened. She watched as
he stood at the bar pulling out a very old and small bag, dropping a
few coins into his palm. Hermione noticed how he turned his back to
her as he paid. She sighed; this couldn't be about money, could it?
She looked around, thinking it might have something to do with how
public the place was as well. He came back to the table with two mugs
placing one in front of Hermione and taking a seat opposite her with
his own."Thank
you, Severus." Hermione said as she sipped her butterbeer.He nodded
taking a gulp of his own."I want
you to know I'm having a lovely time. Thank you very much for
asking me along." she said her face lighting up with pleasure.He leaned
in closer to her setting his mug down next to him."Thank
you for coming. I've enjoyed your company." he said softly his
voice low.Hermione
felt a flutter in her stomach, thinking that it was defiantly for the
better that she wasn't in his class when he first started teaching.
The man defiantly knew how to use what assets he had."I am
fortunate that such a lovely witch agreed to accompany me today."
he said his hair curtaining his face.Hermione
blushed, fully aware that now would be the appropriate time to stop
this situation from escalading into one she wasn't sure she could
afford. Despite the fact that her mind was concentrating more on how
soft his face looked than on what would happen twenty years from now.Severus
moved his hand a fraction closer to her on the table, making Hermione
light-headed with the nearness of him."Rosmerta
going to let you wash dishes for those drinks?" said a hateful
voice next to them.Severus
sat back quickly glancing up at Black and Potter standing next to
their booth. Hermione could see Harry at the counter ordering their
drinks; Remus and Peter in a booth on the opposite side of the pub."Unless,
your girlfriend paid for them, Snivelly." said Black."Enough."
said Hermione. "Leave now.""I
don't think we will, budge up will you, let's have a nice cosy
chat." said Black starting to sit next to Hermione throwing an arm
around her neck. Hermione struggled away from as he held onto her."I
still can't figure out why you're wasting your time with
Snivellus. Just think of all the great grease stains you'll get if
you snog him. I know you're a Slytherin and all but I'm willing
to overlook that if I can overlook some other-" Severus jumped over
the table grabbing Sirius by the neck and throwing him from the
booth.James had
his wand pointed at Severus. "Now play nice Snivelly. You don't
want to be shipped off to your daddy now do you?" he jeered.People
were starting to stare as James leaned down helping Sirius up. Potter
stowed his wand back up his sleeve, backing away from the table with
a terrible smirk on his face. Hermione could see Peter laughing his
hand to his side gripping onto the booth for support; Remus' head
was turned down starring at the table. Harry, Hermione noticed seemed
to ignore her completely, carrying the drinks back to his seat.Severus
was shaking with suppressed anger, his hands trembling as they
clenched onto the edge of the table.Hermione
felt like shouting, why did they have to bloody well mess up
everything. She brushed her palm gently against the back of Severus
hand."Do you
want to head back?" she asked gently.He nodded
his lips thinned and his eyes flashing. Hermione kept his hand firmly
clutched his hers, hoping to stop him from flying across the pub and
throttling the whole lot of them.They
slipped out the door amidst the loud laughter of the Mauders.
Hermione let his hand go slowly as the door clicked shut. Severus
walked quickly ahead of her his cloak snapping in the wind as he
moved.Hermione
hurried after him as he took a side street bypassing a good stretch
of shops in favour of a quiet road."Severus."
Hermione called a few paces behind him. "Please slow down."He
stopped letting her catch up with him. "I should have hexed him,"
he said as she stood next to him. His breath was coming in short
fast."I'm
glad you didn't. Hogwarts would not have been the same without
you," she said giving him a small smile and resting her hand on his
arm.His hands
closed in tight fists. "He shouldn't be allowed to treat you like
that," he said angrily."Severus,"
she said softly trying to soothe him. Hermione noticed that while he
seemed calm on the outside she could almost feel the rage boiling
under his skin.Severus
gritted his teeth fixing his eyes on Hermione. Starring at her
upturned collar from where Black had his arm around her. His hand
shot out folding her collar down trying to erase the image of Black
pawing at her from his mind. His finger brushed through her hair,
engulfing Severus in a sweet airy smell as it shifted. His hand
itched to bury itself into her curls, but Severus held himself at
bay. The last thing she needed was someone else mauling her.Hermione
felt her skin tingle the moment his hand came near her, she looked
down at his hand folding her shirt down, smoothing it neatly. She
noticed his hand was smooth and there were fine hairs swept across
his knuckles. She wanted to reach out and stroke the inside of his
palm, wondering if the indentations were callused or soft.His hand
pulled away slowly and Hermione felt a cold seep into her skin at the
loss of warmth.Her eyes
snapped up to his, feeling as if she was about to jump from the
tallest tower in the castle. She stood high on her toes and crushed
her mouth to his bolstered by the stunned breath that escaped him.He sunk
his hands into her hair, his heart racing as her mouth slid warmly
over his lips. He bit back a groan as she sucked his lower lip into
her mouth tenderly raking her teeth over it before releasing it only
to flick her tongue into his mouth caressing his own tongue
skilfully. Severus felt as if he knees would give out as she reached
up and slid her palm across his face and throat. He slid his hands
down her shoulders and lifted her up to him.Hermione
broke the kiss as her feet left the ground her forehead resting
against Severus', watching him regain his breathing his eyes closed
tight and his lips deliciously red and swollen. She dipped her head
down again brushing her lips lightly against his, proud of how
tousled he looked.He set
her down lightly his eyes half open."Maybe
I should go back and thank Black."Hermione
laughed aloud, her hands resting flat against his chest. "It might
be worth it, if only to see the look on his face."AN: I love
this chapter… Hope you do to… leave me a comment either way…
Please! Thanks to everyone who's reviewed so far.





--------




24. A
sheep in wolfs clothing.The
Marauders ambled their way back to the school. James and Sirius led
the group laughing loudly, as Peter hurried behind them; stuffing his
face with sweets. Remus walked slowly next to Wormtail, his hands in
his pockets and his feet kicking at a stone that kept crossing his
path.Harry
tore his eyes from them and glanced out over fields that lined the
pathways. His mood was subdued, as a deep awareness washed over him,
illuminating the fact that his father and Godfather were not living
up to his expectations. He had always thought that if he ever got the
chance to know his father and Sirius when they were at school that
all his questions would be answered. Believing they would have some
proof to show that Snape had always been wrong about them, and that
Snape was really the bully who would invent dark spells and hexes
hoping to use them against James and Sirius.Harry
sighed, there was no doubt in his heart that he loved his family, but
now he realized he valued them as adults; loving James as a father
and Lilly as a mother, and Sirius as the friend he would come to be.
He much preferred the few memories he had of being safe and warm with
his parents when he was an infant and the friendship he had with
Sirius than these new ones where he watch them bully and taunt just
because it amused them.He
glanced at his father watching as he jerked a Pepper Imp out of
Wormtails arms and popped it in his mouth. Harry turned his head away
again as James breathed a jet of fire causing Peter to yelp in
surprise. James Potter really was an arrogant prat and Sirius as
well. Harry felt ill even admitting that. At first it had been so
easy to believe them, listening to them vilify Snape, explaining how
he was always sneaking after them and trying to get them into
trouble, even they were only a few seconds outside of curfew. Telling
Harry, how the very first day they met him, Snape had told them he
knew all about the Dark Arts and had tried to show them forbidden
spells. How Snape would start fights in the halls when the teachers
were not looking and always made it seem like they were the ones
starting the fights. Harry had listened intently, hoping that
somewhere he would be able to have the proof he sought after to hate
Snape properly. It had never come, in the month he had been here with
them he had seen them attack Snape more times, than he wanted to
count, and what was worse they were now starting in on Hermione for
even associating with him. Harry shook his head. It seemed to him
that their goal was to make Snape's life as difficult as possible
while at Hogwarts. What was worse and made Harry feel guilty was that
most of the teachers seemed to ignore all of it.Harry
shifted his eyes back to the group watching them fight each other
with fake wands. It made Harry wish he had Ron back and Hermione.
Harry tore his gaze from them thinking back over the day. What Sirius
and his dad had done today at the Three Broom Sticks was utterly
uncalled for and he was half-glad Snape was there to stop them.
Harry's shame doubled as recalled how foul he had treated her over
last few weeks as well.He had
been so angry when he had seen them kissing at the Quidditch match,
had he even really seen them, or was he trying to make himself see it
and letting Sirius egg him on. The whole thing was so buggered up
Harry's head hurt just thinking of it. He felt ashamed; he had
always prided himself on being his own person, and not letting other
people influence him too much. Harry snorted; maybe that was the crux
of the problem, his pride. He could not get past the hurt he felt
when he watched Hermione choose Snape over him, the misery of seeing
his last best friend turn away from him in disgust. Harry felt he was
no better than James or Sirius. Believing only what they wanted to
believe. Acting as if what they did were just harmless pranks, never
really hurting anyone, because to them Snape really wasn't even a
person. Harry wanted to retch, how blind had he been."Hey
Evans?" James shouted flattening his hair as he called out to
Harry's mother a few paces ahead of them, walking with another
group of students."Catch
up with you guys later," James, whispered tossing Harry his fake
wand and giving Sirius a wink before trotting up the path to join
Lilly.Sirius
turned back towards Harry and Remus taking another sweet from Peter's
arms."I
wanted to tell you Granger, it's a waste that your sister spends so
much time with that ugly git, Snivellus. She might be a Slytherin but
she's not bad looking, I've tried to get her to warm up to me but
that greasy prat has got her all befuddled." Sirius smiled when
Peter starting choking after trying to laugh with sweets in his
mouth."Probably
got her under a dark spell." Wormtail rasped."More
like got under her knickers." Black jeered.Harry
opened his mouth, his irritation with Sirius exploding in his gut."Sirius,
give it a rest." said Remus his voice hard. "That's his sister
you're talking about."Harry
stared at Remus for a full minute before nodding at him quickly.
Sirius seemed frozen in shock, Harry wondered if this was the first
time Remus had ever spoke to him like that."Sirius,
I want you to leave her alone, and ignore what I said about Snape. I
want nothing to do with it," he said, starring Sirius down."Harry,
you can't forget what we've told you. You going to let your
sister…""My
sister is perfectly capable of taking care of herself. More than that
all this rubbish, you keep harping on about how terrible Snape is;
well I don't see it, not now anyway. All I see are a couple of
berks taking the mickey out of a bloke just because they're bored.
It's pathetic and," Harry felt winded, "and its cowardly."
remembering the last time he had called someone a coward. He
swallowed hard pushing pass Sirius and stalking up the hill towards
the school.Sirius
starred at Remus and Peter looking lost and disorientated."You've
went too far this time, Padfoot." Remus said sadly cuffing Sirius
on the shoulder.Hermione
and Severus walked out of the Great Hall having finished lunch
already. They were heading to the dungeons to start on some homework
when Harry barrelled into the castle. He spotted Hermione and gave
her a small smile walking up to her slowly."Could
I talk to you for a moment?" he asked softly.Hermione
was tempted to tell him no, "Alright." she said nodding to
Severus, "I'll meet you in the common room?"Severus
seemed reluctant to leave, "I can wait, if you like." he asked
giving Harry an apprehensive glance.Hermione
smiled sincerely at him, "I won't be long," she said following
Harry as he moved out of the walkway and closer to the wall by the
foot of the stairs.Hermione
looked at him expectantly. "What do you want?" she said trying to
keep the hurt out from her voice."Hermione,
I'm sorry," said Harry his head shaking slowly. "I've been
terrible to you."Hermione
bit her lip overwhelmed with relief. "Harry.""No
Hermione let me finish. I should have never said those things about
Ron or treated you so awful when you told me of what James and Sirius
did to you." Harry looked at her his face full of self-loathing.
"And today in the Three Broomsticks, I should have never let them
get away with that. I've been horrible to you and to your
friendship." he finished."Thank
you for apologizing." she said softly."I know
it hasn't changed what's already happened, but I've told Sirius
to lay off Snape. I know I'll never really get pass what he has
done, but" Harry sighed, "It hurt Hermione. It hurt to see you
choose him.""Oh
Harry, I didn't choose him over you, it's not a competition. I
can't only be either your friend or his," she said huffily."I know
that, and I'm not trying to make excuses."Hermione
was silent for a moment, chewing her lips in between her teeth."Harry,
I think you should apologize to Severus. The way you attacked him
last weekend was appalling. He did nothing to warrant that and I was
so ashamed of you. I know you're better than that."Harry
closed his eyes, "I don't know if I can, Hermione. Its…" he
turned from her piercing gaze starring at a suit of armour next to
them. "I know he's not the same Snape, but I just can't seem to
separate them at the moment. I'm not going to bother him anymore
and I'll make an effort to keep the others away from him, but I
can't." he sighed. "I understand he's you friend, or
whatever, but to me he's still a murd-""Shh!"
hissed Hermione glancing around at students walking up the stairs."Harry,
thank you for your apology, but it doesn't mean much if you're
not willing to make amends. Be the bigger person, you're so upset
at the way James and Sirius are acting, then show them what it means
to be a honourable wizard." she said giving him one last look
before descending into the dungeons.Harry
watched her go, realizing that if he wanted his friend back he was
going to have to apologize to the one wizard he hated more than
anyone.Hermione
stepped through the portrait hole and into the empty common room
owing to the fact that, the majority of the Slytherins had yet to
return, they were most likely either heading back from the village
or dinning in the hall.She
spotted Severus sitting at a desk nearest the fireplace. His
shoulders bent over his book and his hand scribbling furiously over a
long roll of parchment. He looked up at her as she moved further into
the room."Everything
alright?" he asked laying his quill down and sitting up straighter
in his chair.She
nodded, "He wanted to apologize."Severus
raised a sceptical eyebrow."I've
explained to him that while his apology is appreciated he needs to
follow through and make amends to you as well," she said leaning on
the table next to where Severus sat.Severus
looked at her, "There is no need,""Yes,
Severus, there is. He has attacked you, ridiculed and been decidedly
foul to you for long enough. I will not accept his apology until he's
given you one as well."Severus
snorted crossing his arms over his chest and giving her a sidelong
smirk, "Yes well, while we're waiting lets see if we can get the
House-elves to consent to clothes?"Hermione
looked at him sharply, "Don't think I haven't thought on it."Severus
bit his cheek to keep from laughing at how dejected she looked. He
uncrossed his arms leaning in closer to her."You're
making it quite a challenge to concentrate on my Potions essay," he
said silkily reaching out timidly with the pad of his finger and
dragging it down the inside of her wrist where it leaned against
table, supporting her weight.He
watched her skin shudder, amazed at how it prickled with chills."I
wouldn't want your work to suffer." she said apologetically but
made no effort to move away from him.Severus
gave her a small smile, scooting closer to edge of his seat."It is
a very complex assignment, you know" he said mischievously sitting
up taller bringing his head level with hers.Hermione
nodded, reaching out to caress his shoulder, "I understand, and I
really don't mean to be such a bother." she said, adoring how
cheeky he was being, trying to get a snog out of her. She could see a
slight grin hiding about his lips."It is
most discourteous of you. Interrupting my studies with such blatant
impropriety," he said softly, his mouth parting slightly as he
advanced on her.Hermione
turned slightly towards him the tendrils of her hair brushing against
his cheek; "What ever can I do to rectify my indiscretions?" she
whispered her lips barely touching his."I'm
sure we can reach,"The
common room door creaked open forcing the two away from each other.
As a few third years came in. Hermione moved to take a seat across
from him pulling her books from her bag.She
looked up at Severus he already had his head bent back over his books
but lifted up just a fraction to give her a cheeky smirk."Blatant
impropriety indeed." she whispered before dipping her quill into
the inkwell.AN:
I had a lot of fun writing this chapter. Especially that last bit.I hope
this helps everyone on the Harry front. I told you he would come
around… he's just a boy and we all know how thick boys are.Thanks to
everyone who has reviewed, it is so great to read what you think of
the story. I am hoping to get at least four more chapters in before
my new job starts. There are bunches of thoughts floating in my head
and I really want to get them down before I have to start thinking in
medical terms… Blah… otherwise, you will be reading Snape saying,
"kiss me Hermione, stat."Lol…
Hmmm…no I
wouldn't do that to you all.





--------




25.Its
good to learn from your mistakesbut that only works in youthThe bell
rang just as Professor Meadows was calling out their homework
assignment."Sixteen
inches on Vampires due next lesson." he bellowed.Severus
and Hermione bent over their parchments scribbling in a reminder.Hermione
started tucking her books back into her bag as the other students
went barrelling out of the classroom. She looked to Severus as a loud
crash tore through the bustle of noise that had already began filling
the room.Severus
lay sprawled on the floor, his chair splintered underneath him."What
in the name of Merlin is going on?" said Professor Meadows."Nothing,
Professor." Severus said through gritted teeth."I want
this mess cleaned up right away, Mr. Snape," he snarled before
heading towards his office.Laughter
rang through the class as Potter, Black and Peter sidled up to the
desk. She opened her mouth to tell them all to bugger off when Harry
and Remus stepped out from behind them. Harry reached out to Severus,
offering his hand.Snape
glared at Harry before gripping the edge of his desk to hoist himself
up.Harry
shook his head looking back over his shoulder at his father and
Godfather grasping each other in vicious laughter."Give
it a rest you two." Said Remus softly before walking out of the
class followed by Harry.Hermione
handed Severus his bag as they headed to the door, trying valiantly
to ignore the trio behind them."Sixteen
inches on vampires, eh Snivellus. That should be right up your
alley," snarled Black.James
imitated a comical vampire with his cloak up around his face, much to
the amusement of Wormtail.Severus
turned sharply, his wand high out in front of him. He made a quick
steady flick with his wand."Severus
you mustn't" said Hermione aware that the damage had already been
done, judging by the sounds coming from James, Black and Peter.Hermione
watched in rapt curiosity. Peter had flopped down on the floor and
was quickly trying to pull his boots off. James and Black were
dancing a sickening ballet across the room hopping from one foot to
the other."What
was that?" she asked Severus as he mended the chair."Let's
just say their toenails will reach sixteen inches long before my
essay does," he said quietly as they exited the class. Leaving the
three to howl after him.They
walked side by side for a short while, Hermione deeply aware at how
shallow Severus was breathing. They hit the stairs leading down to
the third floor when Severus clutched his side; hissing."Are
you hurt?" Hermione asked lowering her hand gently to his shoulder
as he bent double."It's
just a bruise from falling," he said tersely pulling his hand away
from his ribs and straightening. He lifted his foot determined to
take the stairs quickly. They endured three more steps before he
halted, grimacing."Please
let me look." She said tenderly.He nodded
leaning his back against the cool of the stones.Hermione
brought her hands up to this chest pushing back his robes and pulling
up his shirt and jumper. There was a large bruise between his last
two ribs and a small indentation in between."I
think you may have broken a rib." she set her wand against his side
lightly, watching as the light turned a faint red.She shook
her head, "It's broken all right. We need to go to Pomfrey,"
she said quietly.Severus
breath was coming shorter and harsher. He shook his head, "I can
heal it, just let me have a moment.""Severus,
please this is serious let me help you to the infirmary." she tried
soothingly."I will
not subject myself to her perverse brand of healing. I have had
enough of her accusatory looks and backhanded comments. I can take
care of myself," he said a bit harshly.Hermione
stepped back from him, wounded. "I," she started her voice
startled before steeling herself. "I hate seeing you hurt and
having to suffer through everything alone."Severus
eyes softened. "I am not alone," he said faintly.Hermione
smiled. "Then tell me how to help you."Severus
watched her for a moment before nodding slowly. "If you would
please hold my garments out of the way it would be most helpful."Hermione
walked to him quickly, gingerly pushing his shirt, jumper and cloak
to the side. Severus placed his wand against his chest before taking
a deep shuddering breath. He let the air escape his lungs in a
melodic song the tip of his wand moving in small circles and his eyes
close tightly. His voice hitched painfully as a sound like eggs
cracking rose up over his spell making Hermione wince.Severus
let his hand fall to his side and leaned his head back against the
wall. Hermione slowly touched her hand to his side, caressing it
softly."Where
did you learn that spell?" she asked softly her hand moving in a
tender imitation of his healing charm.Severus
swallowed, "My mother taught it to me."Hermione
raised her head to meet his gaze in question. Severus starred at her
relaxing into her touch. He dipped his head towards her letting his
mouth slip pleasingly over her own."Thank
you," he said against her mouth.Hermione
laughed, "I haven't done anything remotely useful."Severus
pulled back from her slightly, giving her a deep severe look."You've
done more than you can imagine," he said before descending on her
again his fingers caressing the delicate and exposed skin of her
wrists.Hermione
broke free of him her mind blurry."We're
late for class. I'm supposed to be in Herbology."Severus
nodded slowly letting his hand fall away from her and stepping back a
few paces to give her room."Are
you feeling better?" she asked shyly."Much."
he said."Right,"
Hermione started nervously, "I'll see you after classes?" she
asked feeling silly, and wondering why she was so jittery, it was not
like that was the first time they had snogged.Severus
nodded to her pulling his bag more firmly onto his shoulder."I've
a break after History of Magic, are you free.""Yes,
would you like to meet at the lake before dinner?" she asked
feeling her throat constrict."That
would be agreeable," he said in a soft low voice."Alright
then." she said all but quivering before standing taller on her
toes and kissing him swiftly then sprinting down the stairs to the
school grounds.Severus
was already waiting for her by the lake when she arrived. He sat
stoically starring out over the water; his legs pulled up slightly
towards his chest and his wand dangling in his hand as it rested on
his knee. Hermione walked up and took a seat next to him.Severus
let his hand fall away putting his wand back up his sleeve."How
was Herbology?" he asked.Hermione
smiled, "Fine, how was History of Magic." she asked playfully.He raised
and eyebrow up at her before starring back at the water, "As
riveting as can be expected, though I happen to like how empty it is
in there, being that I am one of five people taking the course.""I can
imagine. I remember when I took it my six-year, I was one of three,"
she said playfully.Severus
looked at her sharply. "You have already completed your six year."Hermione
nodded slowly. "I have." she said already knowing what he would
ask next."Then
why take it again?" he asked his eyes wide in disbelief.Hermione
took a deep breath, already feeling an ache behind her eyes."I
suppose because I wanted to try the other courses wouldn't work?"
she asked playfully.Severus
seemed less than impressed."There
wasn't any other option really. We could not get a place in
Hogsmeade or Diagon Alley, since we do not have any money, and we
cannot get a job because technically we do not exists. Dumbledore was
gracious enough to let us stay on here and take classes, hoping to
keep us above suspicion by acting as students." she finished
feeling rather tired and hoping to avoid any questions on why they
had retook their six year instead of their seventh. She really did
not want to explain; though knowing Severus he would ask anyways, he
really was too perceptive.Severus
stared at her for a few moments while she looked out over the water."Why
not start your seventh year?" he asked quietly.Hermione
closed her eyes wondering if getting involved with Severus might have
been a terrible mistake."For
Harry's sake really and to keep a look out for any information that
can help us fight our war." she said realizing that it might be a
better idea to just stand up and head for the castle."A look
out? What could anyone in their sixth year of Hogwarts tell you about
a war that happens in twenty years?" he asked forcefully though
careful to keep his voice at a low whisper.Hermione
looked at him seriously, wondering how much she could tell him."There
are a lot of things about this situation I can't tell you, and I
apologize for that, I can't imagine how frustrating it must me.
Just believe me when I say there are people in this school that play
a huge role in the war and might be able to help us. There are a lot
of other specifics that go along with it but I can't explain those
either." she finished sadly."How
old are you?" he asked.Hermione
was slightly startled, "Nineteen."Severus'
eyebrows rose high into his hairline before he turned away from her
looking out over the lake as the giant squid buoyed out of the water."It
feels like I hardly know you. More than that, it seems that every
time I do get an indication on who you might be something like this
happens and it's all washed away." He said still not turning his
head from the squid circling the lake.Hermione
sighed, "I can tell you a bit about myself if you like. Where I was
born, my parents. I don't want to make this difficult for you, and
I understand if its too much; I won't beg you to stay." she said
softly a lump forming in her throat at the idea of having to live out
her days here without him even if they were only friends.Severus
looked at her his face taut and his eyes fierce. "I want to know
you, Hermione."Hermione
placed her hand on top of his where it rested in the grass."Well,
I was born in London to Muggles." she started looking at Severus
furtively."Both
of them?" he asked staring at her his mouth slightly agape.Hermione
nodded, "Yes, there dentist.""I've
never know any muggle-borns sorted into Slytherin." he said
faintly.Hermione
laughed, "Yes well the hat said I had a plan that I wanted to put
in motion. Seemed to think that my cunning superseded my blood
status."Severus
nodded though seemed to look at her a bit oddly. Hermione wondered if
he had always been against muggleborns or had that come later."Does
that bother you?" she asked quietly moving her hand from his and
pulling up a blade of grass."It
might have had I known before I started talking with you." he said
honestly.Hermione
felt herself ruffling a bit. He was a half-blood how much different
could it be from her? One bloody parent?"I
can't see you as someone stuck on being pure-blooded? You see how
well I do in school I'm a point away from you," she said getting
angrier the more she thought on it."I'm
a half-blood. My father is a muggle," he said as if that alone
should be explanation enough.Hermione
narrowed her eyes at him, "Not all people are like your father."Severus
looked stunned. "I didn't say they were.""Then
why treat me as if I'm something beneath you for being a
muggle-born."Severus
bit out a short laugh, "You misunderstand me. I'm not saying I
wouldn't have talked to you had I known, Its more that I do not
know how I would have acted; it's impossible for me to know what I
might have done. I don't care that you're muggle-born it doesn't
make you any less of a witch in my eyes."Hermione
felt herself relaxing a little, though embarrassment quickly filled
its place before she started breaking into a loud laugh."Well
it might not matter that I'm muggle born but it's defiantly going
to annoy you when I say that in my own time I was a Gryffindor."Severus'
eyes widened, "Your joking." he said his voice filled with
incredulity.Hermione
laughed harder, "No I'm not. Though to be fair, the sorting hat
had wanted to put me in Ravenclaw.""Your
one redeeming attribute then."Hermione
smiled, "Only one?"Severus
smirked, "There might be others but your ego is in the way," he
said playfully.Hermione
shook her head, "I'm not nearly as bad as all that.""True,
but technically you were one of them," he said."Yes,
well the House of Slytherin is doing a fine job on eradicating any
residual tendencies." she said laughing.Severus
pushed his hair out of his face watching her intently as she laughed.
"So your muggle-born and a Gryffindor," he said Gryffindor with
such loathing it made Hermione almost choke with laughter. "You're
nineteen, terribly clever, and currently stuck twenty-years in the
past."Hermione
nodded, "That pretty much sums it up."He looked
at her thoughtfully before saying, "That means I'm twenty years
older than you in your own time."Hermione's
laughter stopped abruptly. "Well yes I suppose so."Severus
stared at her, a thick silence falling in between them. His mouth
opened a fraction and Hermione felt a heavy dread settle in her
stomach, knowing any minute now he would figure out much more than he
ever needed to know."So
what else can you tell me, about the little slithering lioness." he
smirked.Hermione
snorted as relief surged through her. She began to tell him all about
her days at primary school and her letter from Hogwarts. How Harry,
Ron and her became friends."They
fought a full grown mountain troll as first years?" he asked
sceptically."They
did, and had it not been for them I probably would have died.""You're
lucky to have such remarkable friends." he said his voice holding a
hint of bitterness."We did
always manage to find ourselves in trouble." She said warmly."Your
poor teachers." he said with a smirk.Hermione
nodded, "Yes it's a wonder we weren't all expelled."Severus
nodded, "It's getting late do you want to head up to the castle
for dinner?" he asked.Hermione
shifted closer next to him, "I suppose we should but I'm having a
lovely time.""Then
we shall stay, if we miss dinner than we'll slip down to the
kitchens later." He said smoothly letting his arm curve around her
as he leaned back heavily on his arms, stretching out his long legs."What
about you, Severus. I don't know much about you at all." she said
her head resting back against his shoulder."I have
a feeling you know more about me than I can conceive of.""Perhaps,
but I know next to nothing of you now." she said swiftly.Hermione
felt him nod. "Alright, then. You are already aware that I am a
half blood. My father Tobias is a muggle and my mother Eileen was a
witch. Is a witch. I too was born in London and grew up in a small
town near a mill that happens to be the only thing keeping the town
operating. I was home schooled and until I came to Hogwarts had no
clue that my mother was in fact a witch.""She
never told you?" Hermione asked."No
never, I suspect my father knew but like many things felt the need to
keep it concealed."Hermione's
heart tightened thinking about how terrible his youth must have been."Was
your father angry about you coming here?" she asked soothingly."He was
upset, but my mother convinced him that it was for the best," he
said crossing his feet together in the grass. "I imagine the idea
of me leaving home for months at a time persuaded him much more
effectively than anything my mother might have said," he said
mockingly."That
terrible, Severus.""It is
in the past; I've learnt to deal with it and am much better for it
I'm sure.""How
can you say that?" she asked."It's
given me a valuable lesson. If anything I am grateful he's taught
me how to take care of myself," he said."What
do you do on the holidays?" Hermione asked, wondering if this
subject was getting a little too personal."When
my mother was still there, I'd go home to visit with her, keeping
to myself in the evenings so as not to upset my father. Now, I
suppose I'll stay over for winter break and most likely find
employment for over the summer, perhaps stay in Diagon Alley." he
said calmly as if it were no more significant than extended weekend
away from his father."Won't
he be upset if you don't return?" she asked sitting up to look at
him."I'd
say there's a better chance of that if I did." he said starring
down at her his hair framing his face in deep shadows from the
setting sun.Hermione
felt overwhelmed with sadness for him. How anyone could let something
like this continue. Why had no one helped him, how could Dumbledore.
It was what happened to Harry all over again. Dumbledore abandoning
him to the Durselys. Just like he abandoned Severus to his fate here
as a student and again when he joined Voldemort. Hermione's brain
started working furiously, how much would change if she stopped
Severus from joining. Dumbledore would not die, that was for sure but
what else might or might not happen."Are
you alright?" he asked gently caressing her arm.Hermione
looked at him, feeling her stomach flutter with fear and
anticipation, before crushing her mouth against his."I
won't leave you to a life like that," she said cryptically before
knotting her hands into his hair and tugging on his lip with her own.Severus
kissed her back with equal fervour slightly flummoxed as to what she
was talking about but pleasantly occupied enough not to really care.An: Hmmm Hermione seems
to be up to something. I hope you all like this chapter, I really
thought it was going to turn out differently, but I'm much happier
with this version. Well I hope I can get another chapter up before
Monday… if not then I apologize in advance. Its back to work.





--------




26. Held
to the past too aware of the pending.Hermione
stared down at the empty parchment that she held as she sat on her
bed in her dormitory, her quill sat next to an unopened inkwell on
the side table. The lights were dimmed and the other beds all had
their curtains drawn around them, though none of this registered with
Hermione as her thoughts were too occupied with the never-ending loop
of questions that overwhelmed her.She had
retired to bed early hoping to organize her mind and logically look
at the situation with Severus; there had to be something she could
do.Hermione
never made it past unrolling a bit of parchment before her mind froze
in fear. There was nothing; Severus Snape would have to join the
Death Eaters and he would live out his life toeing the line of light
and dark. No matter how much Hermione did not want his life to come
to that there were just too many variables of which she did not know.She
shuddered with hopelessness. Hermione had come to care for Severus
deeply, and the thought of her possibly leaving here, leaving him to
a life where he would spend the majority of it doing the biding of
one master or the other, tore at her.Hermione
buried her head into her hands. There had to be another way she was
supposed to be the brightest witch of her age. Hermione froze;
Voldemort, if they killed Voldemort now, then Severus could not join.
Almost instantly Hermione's face went slack, realizing even that
was not an option. They needed to wait until he heard the prophecy,
(from Severus no less) marking Harry as his enemy and enabling him to
actually kill Voldemort. If that did not happen…Hermione sighed;
Severus was just too important a figure in the war. He had engrained
himself so far into the whole affair there was no way to pull him out
without damaging hundreds if not thousands of lives.Hermione
let herself fall back against the sheets; she had lied to him again.
She could not save him, just as she could not save Ron."Could
I speak with you a moment?" Harry asked.Severus
nodded to Hermione, "I'll meet you in class," he said turning
from them."Actually,
I'd like to talk with you, Snape." said Harry.Both
Hermione and Severus' eyebrows rose high in question.Hermione
squeezed Severus' hand, "I'll meet you in class, then,"
she said giving him a small smile.Severus
and Harry watched her go, both thinking it might have served them
better if she had stayed on as a mediator.Harry
gave Snape a deep look as if sizing him up, or perhaps, Severus
thought, gathering his courage. "Hermione means a great deal to me,
and if I want to remain dear to her then I need to own up to my
mistakes. Mainly the ones concerning you." said Harry tetchily.Severus
crossed his arms over his chest, doing his best to look unmoved."Right.
I apologize. It was unfair of me to attack you after the Quidditch
match. I had no right. I also owe you my gratitude. Had you not been
there in Hogsmeade…" Harry winced, "well, I'm not sure what
might have happened, but it most certainly wouldn't have been
good."Severus
viewed Harry as if he were a particularly easy potion to brew."I know
I cannot speak for the rest of them," Harry continued quickly, "but
I want you to know I think what they're doing is wrong. I may not
like you, but that's no reason to be cruel."Severus
uncrossed his arms in agitation, "Lovely sentiments. Now, excuse
me, I have a class." he moved pass Harry quickly, though Harry's
fingers tightened around the hem of his robe."Are
you involved with her?" he asked quickly meeting Severus eyes
defiantly.Severus
smirked, "As much pleasure I would garner out of answering that…
you would do well to ask her instead." looking pointedly at his
cloak where Harry's fingers still gripped it.Harry let
his hand fall away, his face flushed angrily as Severus swept out of
sight.Severus
took his seat next to Hermione in Potions. She wore an eager
expression on her face."Five
points from Slytherin for tardiness, Mr. Snape." said Slughorn, who
gave Severus a piercing look.Severus
nodded, reaching for his bag.Hermione
ignored Slughorn instead she whispered to Severus, "How did it go?""He has
seen fit to apologize for his behaviour," he said, setting his
book, quills and parchments out neatly before him."Oh,
Severus, that's wonderful." she said enthusiastically, giving his
leg a quick squeeze under the table.Severus
found his annoyance with Granger became less potent the moment she
touched him."I do
not want conflict between the two of you and if my acceptance of his
woeful apology rectifies that, then it is a small price to pay," he
said, looking at her levelly.Hermione's
eyes began to water, which made Severus feel highly uncomfortable."I,"
her voice was cut off as a dragon heart hit Severus squarely upside
the head.Hermione
stood up from the table furiously. "Professor!" she called.Slughorn
turned to see Severus wiping his face clean."Who is
responsible for this," he asked his eyes already going to James,
Sirius and Peter who were sitting at a workstation adjacent to
Severus.James was
turning a violent blue, from suppressed laughter."I'm
afraid I don't know what you're talking about, Professor," said
Black smoothly. Peter chortled next to him."No
doubt. Perhaps a detention will help jog your memories," said
Slughorn. James sobered up quickly. "And ten points from
Gryffindor, for wasting my stores. My classroom is not the Quidditch
pitch boys. You'll do well to remember that," he said, raising
his wand and vanishing the slippery heart that sat on the table in
front of Severus.Hermione
chanced a look at Severus, his eyes were narrowed and there was a
darkness clouding his features."Severus,
do not think on it. You're worth ten of them," she said tenderly.He looked
at her sharply before his face relaxed, "My voice of reason." he
said with a smirk turned back to his work.The air
vanished from Hermione's lungs and a feeling of dread filled her
instead. She could not possibly be the reason he joined-"You
look like you're going to be ill," he said, noticing the loss of
colour to her face and tight fists she had balled her hands into.Hermione
swallowed in deep breaths and tried to keep her face passive. "Just
wool-gathering I suppose.' She said, her voice falsely animated.He gave
her an odd look, nodded and stooped back over his notes.Hermione
watched him, deciding right then she would go to Harry. If he were
sensible enough to apologize, he would be sensible enough to hear her
out; she hoped.She
caught Harry just before he entered the dinning hall for dinner."I need
to talk to you," she said before nodding to Remus, who had stopped
to wait for him."What
about?" he asked."Back
home." she said cryptically.Harry's
reaction was instantaneous. His eyes widened and he turned quickly to
Remus, "I'll catch up with you in a bit."Hermione,
all but, dragged Harry away from the Great Hall and out the front
doors."Where
on Earth are we going?" he said."I
don't want to be overheard," she said by way of explanation
before stopping just outside the doors and sitting down on the steps
pulling Harry down with her."Harry,
I need you to promise me that no matter how angry you get you wont
blow up until after I've said my fill." she said her eyes
pleading with him."Hermione,
of course.""I've
told Severus-" she started."YOU
WHAT!" he interrupted, his voice booming."You
promised, Harry," she said quietly looking around her to see if
anyone had heard them.Harry
took five very deep breaths trying to calm himself down."To be
fair, he figured it out on his own. He had noticed the time-turner in
the Headmaster's office and then the rest clicked in place.""How
much does he know?" he asked through gritted teeth."That
we're from a Hogwarts twenty years in the future and we
accidentally ended up here. He knows about the war, not all of it,
but I've told him that we're trying to destroy a weapon here in
hopes of fighting the war on even ground."Harry
shook his head quickly as if trying to dispel her words from his
ears."He
knows you're not my brother and that Ron died." she said her
voice trembling slightly."Hermione
what are we going to do? All the talk about how we couldn't let
anyone know… it's all for nothing now.""Not
necessarily, Harry. That's what I want to talk to you about." she
said looking down at the steps."Go on
then." he said in a voice that said 'do your worst.'"Well,
I want to know what you think about telling him everything: his role
in the war, in our lives. I do not want him to become what he is,
Harry. I know you're not going to like it, but I care very deeply
for him." she finished half-expecting Harry to explode.He sat
quietly for moment. "It's a double edged sword. If you were to
tell him, and he didn't become a Death Eater then he wouldn't
overhear the prophecy, wouldn't get my parents killed," he
grounded out, "wouldn't turn spy for Dumbledore and really who
knows what information he brought back for the Order. Hermione, if
Voldemort doesn't come after me, as a baby, then he won't be
stopped like he was for the eleven years. Who knows what he'd do in
that time," said Harry ignoring the comment of how she cared for
Snape.Hermione
wilted, "That's what I thought.""I
won't tell you what to do, Hermione. I might not understand what
you're going through, but sacrificing loads of people's lives for
one seems wrong and not just because of what he's done."Hermione
looked at Harry regretfully, "I know. I knew before I even asked
you. I just didn't want to believe it."They sat
quietly next to each other watching owls swoop in and out of the
clouds taking out the evening mail."Are
you two together?" he asked, giving her a sidelong look.She
nodded, "I know it complicates matters, but like I said-""You
care for him deeply," finished Harry a sour expression fixed to his
face."Harry,
I think I'm half the reason he joins Voldemort in the first place.""How
could you possibly believe that?" he asked his mouth gaping."I
don't know for sure. Its just something he said today that made me
think of it.""Hermione,"
he said shaking his head."No,
Harry, listen. Severus isn't like the professor we know. He isn't
cruel or callous. He's very intelligent and…-""Spare
me the details if you'd please." choked Harry."I'm
not saying I'm the only reason he turns to them, and you're right
maybe I'm not a cause of it at all. But something has to turn him
towards it Harry and today when he said I was his voice of reason,"
she blushed, "It just made me think that somehow I helped push him
towards it.""Hermione,
he doesn't join the Death Eaters until after he graduates. There
could be loads of reasons why he does it. Sirius said to me once that
he hung with a group of wizards that nearly all turned out to be
Death Eaters. You most likely have nothing to do with it.""He
doesn't hang around anyone besides me. Well, he knows Malfoy, but
there isn't anyone here who talks to him, let alone invites him to
secret meetings for future Death Eaters." Hermione said huffily."How do
you know he doesn't start hanging out with them by the end of his
seventh year?"Hermione
didn't answer."You'll
never know why he does it, until you ask Snape in our own time."Hermione
snorted, "Somehow I doubt he'll be pleased to see me if we
return.""When
we return," Harry corrected her."Thank
you for apologizing to him." she said quietly after a moment of
silence had passed between them."I
didn't do it for him, 'mione." He said bitterly. "I've
missed you. This," he waved his hand out over the grounds, "it
all seems like a bad dream, and it's been even worse not having you
around."Hermione
leaned into his shoulder, "We'll find the cup and then it will
all end." she said feeling the weight of her words sink in."I
didn't think you'd go back," said Harry honestly. "When I
first thought you two were together, I thought for sure you'd stay
behind with him and I'd have to go back without you."Hermione
shook her head, "Harry, I'll always be there for you. We're in
this war together. I've had plenty of chances to turn back, and
this time is no different," she said sadly."Even
if he's here?" he asked his voice just above a whisper."There
isn't anything I can do for him," she said miserably. "No
matter how much I want to."Harry
starred down at the top of her curls resting against his arm."You're
a good person, Hermione Granger. Snape will most likely treasure the
time he did have with you," he said.Hermione
sat up, "Then I'll have to hope that it's enough." she said
wiping at her face and standing up."Dinner?"
she asked reaching out a hand to help him up.He
nodded, "Dinner." letting her tug him up off the stairs.Harry
parted ways with Hermione as they entered the Dinning Hall, Harry
heading for Remus at the Gryffindor table, and Hermione towards
Severus where he sat, his body arched over a book and his plate
pushed to the side still covered in food.She
slipped in next to him, "Must be a good book, you've hardly
touched your dinner." she whispered giving him a broad smile.He looked
at her, bleary eyed from starring at the tiny lettering in his text."I was
waiting for you," he said."You
didn't have to do that, what if I had been ages?" she asked
heaping some potatoes onto her plate."Had
you not shown up within the hour I would have sought you out, seeing
how Potter and Black are not in attendance," he said glancing
pointedly at the Gryffindor table."Probably
serving out their detentions," she said not feeling sorry for them
in the least."I
don't think so. They've been disappearing quite often," he said
pulling his plate towards him and scooping a fork full of mince into
his mouth."What
do you think they're up to?" she asked curiously."I am
not sure, but I intend to find out. How is your brother,
incidentally." giving her a small smirk."Better,
he's none too impressed with those two either." she said pointing
her fork at James and Sirius as they entered the hall.Severus
fell silent as James gave the students sitting nearby, an exaggerated
re-enactment of Severus being hit with the Dragon heart."What
an idiot." Hermione said.Severus
pushed his plate away again; Hermione noticed he had barely eaten a
third of it.Hermione
pushed hers back as well, making a big show of being full, "It's
still early, you want to head out to the lake?" she asked."I have
to finish my essay," he said picking up his bag."Then
to the library, or would you rather the common room?" she asked
picking up her own satchel."I'd
rather do it alone." he said his eyes shifting from James to Sirius
as they laughed loudly with the other snickering Gryffindors looking
his way. Severus marched out with disgust almost trailing behind him.Hermione
caught up with him quickly just after he turned out into the hall."Severus,
don't let them get to you. They're not worth the effort," she
said softly, leaning into him and brushing her lips against his.
"I'll be in the common room if you need me."Severus
watched her disappear into the depths of the dungeons, before turning
and heading up towards the library, alone.AN: A big thank you to
LittleMarySunshine our new celebrity, I mean beta!And
another thank you to our reviewers, hope you like the chapter.





--------




27. Never
will I break. Part OneThe
library emptied out steadily throughout the night as Severus sat
scribing out his essay at a table secluded away from the other
students. He barely glanced up from his parchment instead kept his
head close to the table his hand working steadily; sweeping in swift
fluid strokes as he composed all he knew or had ever read on
Vampires.He kept
his mind and body busy, focusing all other thoughts out of his mind,
erasing all the tension, anger, and resentment, so that it was left
clear and precise as he studied. It was his tried and true method of
dealing with all things negative or overwhelming. Take it in, let it
consume him for only a moment and then force it out. Severus was a
master of his emotions- well; he was a master of his emotions up
until Hermione Granger had literally appeared out of nowhere.To
Severus, Hermione Granger was someone he could give his loyalty to.
She was brilliant, witty, and had something about her that drew
Severus in: a bit like a moth to a flame, hypnotic yet with a hidden
unease flitting about it. Ultimately what bothered Severus the most,
and what had made him flee this evening, was that she would leave
eventually. She had her own life to go back to and Severus knew she
would not stay with him; and that scared him. He was not one to admit
to fear especially over a woman, but something told him that when she
left it would be the last time he would truly be at ease. Therefore,
he disconnected himself by putting enough distance between them, only
Severus hoped four floors would be enough.Severus
finished the last inch of his essay, blowing lightly on the parchment
to dry the wet ink of his words. He wondered if maybe he could get
Hermione to divulge a bit about his future, perhaps they were
together in her time, at least friends. He did not think there could
ever be situation where he would not want to be close to the witch.
Severus began packing his bag and returning his books back to the
library cart. A small smirk graced his mouth, thinking how in her own
time he was twenty years her senior. Severus heaved his bag onto his
shoulder and pushed in his chair. Maybe he was her supervisor, he
thought. Perhaps, they were contemporaries working in the Ministry
together. She was young, but terribly smart, possibly she had moved
quickly through the departments before landing in his field. Severus
nodded to himself; yes, he could see Hermione accelerating rapidly
through any profession she chose.Severus
exited the Library, nodding to Madam Pince as he left. It all boiled
down to what his future would be, he reflected. If he were at the
Ministry, he could conceive the notion that Hermione would return to
him somehow. If he were a private supplier in Potions he could see
how she might be a employee of his or maybe he was an instructor at
the Ministry training graduates in the Defence against the Dark Arts
and she had joined the program, perhaps even taught it herself.
Hermione was very good at spell work, thought Severus as he turned
the corner heading down the hallway towards the Prefects bathrooms.
Severus let himself give into the possibility of them, (despite her
age) being involved. He liked kissing Hermione, he thought, a slight
blush creeping into his face, and if he were very honest with
himself, he could imagine liking a lot more than just kissing her.
Severus shifted mid stride, thinking that if he could just get an
idea of his future, then he would be able to tolerate her leaving, if
only he could be sure they would see each other again.Severus
passed a large mirror hanging on the castles wall. He would ask
Hermione, he decided. He would be honest with her, explain to her the
reason why he left her this evening, and share his concerns. Severus
decided he needed to apologize to her as well, she had been so
considerate during dinner and he had brushed her-.Severus
feet shot out from under him making him land hard on the floor his
head snapping back against the stone. Stars erupted behind his eyes
and he felt an overwhelming dizziness engulf him. Groaning he rolled
over onto his side, looking around for what had caused his fall. The
hallway was deserted, he looked to the ceiling thinking that perhaps
Peeves the Poltergeist had tripped him: nothing there either. Shaking
his head slowly and prodding the back of his head he stood. Perhaps
he caught himself on his robes, he thought stooping down to retrieve
his fallen bag.Severus
tripped head first into the floor and this time he felt the force or
the fall, as if something or someone had kicked him in his backside.
With quick reflexes, his wand shot out as he sprang to his feet."Show
yourself," he commanded.A blow to
his stomach sent him staggering to his knees. He swallowed in great
gulps of air trying to ease the pressure in his midsection.Severus
raised his wand again, his fingers flicking out a spell. The light
from his everte statum hex dissipated against the wall as he stood
once more to his feet.His bag
floated unaided up into the air, dropping all his belongings across
the floor. Severus sent another spell directly at his bag but it shot
pass, hitting a suit of armour and ricocheting off down the hall.Severus
lunged for his bag his fingers brushing against something silky
before his bag dropped and the fingers grasped at air. He bent down
quickly, collecting his things and stuffing them haphazardly into his
bag. His wand pointed into the empty hallway.He
struggled as the back of his robe came up over his head and covered
his face. Severus righted himself quickly before springing up and
rapidly started hexing in every direction determined to hit what ever
was attacking him.Severus
through out a dozen spells with no luck he turned to his right and
stood directly in front of the mirror is own harsh features starring
back at him. He flicked his wand sending a stinging hex at the mirror
and knew he had connected with the opponent. A sharp hiss rose out
into the hallway."Show
yourself." Severus commanded again his voice deadly calm.He took a
quick step towards the mirror and his fingers seized onto a fine
fabric that he tore at.Potters
and Blacks head appeared before their arms shot out holding their
wands."Snivelly,
what a pleasant surprise," smirked Black, as if he had happened
upon Severus unexpectedly.The three
of them stood there, their wands held tightly.Severus
knew hexing them would be difficult, though his pride inflated when
he spotted a bright welt on Potters cheek.Tension
crackled in the air for an instant before three spells rang out in
the hallway.Sirius
legs danced wildly about the hallways and Potter had a deep gash
running across the back side of his hand, but it was Severus who had
been pinned against the wall his wand flung yards down the hall.Potter
dropped the jelly-leg curse from Sirius, and they both turned towards
Severus."You
make a lovely gargoyle, Snivelly," said Black in a falsely cheery
voice."Yes,
though I can not quite put my finger on it. He needs something…
perhaps a posh dress, I think I could conjure up one my Gran' likes
to wear." snickered Potter, making a big show of walking around
Snape and taking measurements."Yes, a
nice frill here…" he joked shooting a look over his shoulder to
Black who had his gut clutched in laughter.Severus'
eyes blazed in anger, his fury boiling beneath his frozen body."Where's
Granger, Snivelly?" asked Black. "She finally get tired of you?""We
should pay her a visit, since you're unavailable at the moment,"
laughed Potter forgetting his idea of dressing Snape up."That
sounds like a grand idea, Prongs. She might welcome the company of
two real men. I doubt Snivelly is up to scratch." said Black,
before striking Severus in the face.Severus
felt his cheek explode in pain, his immobile arm wanting to
reflexively cover it."Is she
a good kisser, Snivelly?" leered Black, resting his arm on Severus
shoulder. "She looks like she would be; feisty too."Severus
concentrated on focusing his magic into his hands, he had no
experience with wand-less magic but he fed off his anger hoping to
free himself."We
might have to give her a good washing though; she's probably all
greasy from snogging Severus here." Potter said, using his wand to
lift Severus hair."What
did you give her, Severus? A love potion?" asked Black."Most
likely Imperio." countered Potter with a sneer."He'd
have to give her something, there's no way she'd willingly touch
him otherwise." said Black riffling through Severus pockets and
keeping the one bronze Knut he had in there.A loud
mewing noise came from around the corner, stopping Potter before he
could deliver another blow to Severus abdomen."Filch."
exclaimed Black sprinting half way down the hall.Potter
bent to retrieve something sleek from the ground bundling it up in
his arms."You
know why I hate you, Snivelly? Because you are a pathetic freak, who
think Dark Arts is real magic. I wager you're going to end up in
Azakaban before you even turn twenty." he brought up his knee hard
and quick into Severus body before running down the hall towards
Black. Potter gave one last flick of his wand and sending Severus
sprawling to the ground gasping for breath."Snape."
asked Filch rushing over to where Severus lay."I'm
fine, Mr. Filch." he wheezed."Like
hell you are." he spat, helping Severus to his feet. "It was
those boys, wasn't it?"Severus
said nothing as he leaned back against the wall trying to block out
the pain."I'm
going to the Headmaster with this," said Filch, standing slowly to
his knees."No!"
yelled Severus.Filch
looked to him in amazement. "The Headmaster needs to know those
foul little creatures are doing this.""I am
fine, Mr. Filch." he said, pulling his fallen belongings towards
himself and stuffing them in his bag.Filch
watched him for a long moment before handing him a lone quill that
had rolled towards the wall."You're
a decent sort, Snape," he said before leading Mrs. Norris down the
hall.Severus
entered the common room five minutes later, all the chairs were empty
and the fire how gone out. His whole body ached, and he debated on
his ability to make it to his rooms, eyeing the couch as his closest
source of comfort. He toed off his boots and dropped his bag at the
end of the sofa, grabbing up the blanket folded over the back of it.
Severus considered lighting the fire, but decided against the light
it would give off; his head was pounding and knew complete darkness
would serve him better.Severus
staggered to the front of the couch and spotted Hermione, her feet
tucked up under her and her head cocked to one side as she slept. A
rare smile graced Severus features at the thought of her waiting up
for him.Severus
sat softly at the end of the settee, watching her breath rise and
fall in even measures. Tresses of her hair had fallen out of her bun
and into her face, frizzing out at all angles; the back of her head
flattened from the laying against it. Hermione had a slight pout on
her lips and her arms where curled around her in hopes of keeping
warm.Severus
unfolded the blanket and slid closer to her, resting it across her
knees. Her eyes fluttered open and she pawed at her face trying to
focus on Severus."I'm
sorry to have waken you," he whispered."No I'm
glad that you did-"Severus
muffled her next words as his lips sought out hers in the dark. He
missed her mouth kissing her chin, and then the corner of her lip
before finally his lips exposed her mouth: slipping in his tongue and
deepening the kiss. Severus moved closer to her, bringing his hands
up to cup her face, tilting her head to the left."Thank
you," he whispered into her mouth.Hermione
pulled back from him, before asking, "What for?"Severus
looked at her shyly, "For giving me a chance."Hermione
sprung towards him, leaping half onto his lap and clutching her arms
around his neck.Severus
encircled his arms about her waist, nuzzling against her neck. He
felt her shudder in his arms; experimentally he placed a chaste kiss
against her pulse, revelling in the trembles that he caused.AN:Sorry sorry sorry times
a thousand… work is well work and hard work at that. I'm going to
try to have part two up by Monday.Hope you like this..
And I really want to know if you'd like to read a bit more
snogging… if so, now is the time to speak up because the next few
chapters… well lets just say they're trouble a'brewin'





--------




Disclaimer:::
Please don't read this chapter if your are not 18 years or older.
Its not important to the plot line… J27- Part
Two. - This desire is creeping up heavy."You
daub your perfume here don't you?" whispered Severus, as he
kissed Hermione delicately beneath her ear.She
nodded, her eyes fluttering close as he inhaled; running his nose
lightly down her neck."And
here?" he asked kissing her near the base of her throat. He could
feel her swallow against his mouth as he slid back up the other side
of her neck to her opposite ear."Like a
necklace." he said before kissing her lips.Hermione
smiled and reached up for his face, "You are a brilliant kisser.""I am a
quick study," he smirked.Hermione's
eyes furrowed, "I'm the first one to have kissed you?"Severus
leaned back from her, "Why is that surprising? Do I look like the
sort to have hordes of woman petitioning for my affection?"Hermione
watched him for half a second before moving in close to him."I
think you are very handsome," she whispered.Severus
made a noise of scepticism and crossed his arms over his chest.Hermione
leaned against him, "No honestly, I find you very attractive. More
than that, you're exceptionally intelligent," she stroked her
fingers through his hair. 'and incredibly passionate, intense
even." Hermione brushed the pad of her thumb across his eyelids.
"and above all," she uncrossed his arms and put both her hands to
his chest: one on top of the other, "you're a remarkable man, who
I am grateful to know."Hermione
leaned forward to kiss him, her lips barely brushing against his when
Severus closed the distance swiftly his mouth merging with hers and
his tongue revelling in her warmth."How
many dorm mates do you have?" she asked him breathlessly.Severus'
eyebrows rose high on his brow, "Two, but Lestrange never sleeps
there, why?"Hermione
smiled, a slight blush rising to her cheeks, "Take me to your room,
Severus."This time
his eyes widened and his mouth slackened as he watched her stand and
reach down for his hand. Severus stood quickly, leading her towards a
staircase to the left of them. He headed up one flight of stairs
before turning to the right and opening a heavy door. He motioned for
Hermione to wait there while he went inside."Rosier!
Evan!" Severus called harshly."Snape,
what do you want?" said a sleepy voice from underneath a pile of
covers."Sleep
down stairs for the rest of the night and I'll do your Potions
homework for a week."Evan
peeked his head out from under his blanket, "Even essays?"Severus
nodded once, impatiently.He seemed
to take Severus at his word and swung his feet out, grabbed up his
pillow and blanket then headed for the door."Nice
doing business with you, Snape." he said giving Hermione a nod as
he passed her at the doorway his blanket wrapped snugly around his
shoulders as he left.Hermione
shut the door after him, her hand stilling on the door. Slowly and
timidly, she turned to Severus."Which
is your bed?" she asked, her hands fidgeting in front of her.Severus
pointed to the bed in-between where they were standing.Hermione
gave him a soft smile and took a step nearer to him reaching out for
his hand, threading her fingers through his, and keeping her gaze
towards the floor."I'm
a little nervous," she whispered.Severus
stayed silent but shifted closer to her, his eyes transfixed on the
exposed skin of her neck.Hermione
brought his hand up to her mouth kissing his knuckles."Your
hands are very smooth, except here." she turned his hand, palm side
up, the tips of her fingers caressing over his coarse skin. Hermione
reached for his other hand, holding them out in front of him,
admiringly. She placed a kiss against both palms before returning
them to his side.Hermione
raised her head to meet his gaze. Slowly she began loosening her tie,
pulling it from her neck and draping it on the edge of his bed.She
turned back to him her mouth worrying her lips between her teeth."Do you
not--." she stopped. "Was this too fast?" she asked, taking a
step back from him, her hand restlessly messing about with her
sleeve.Severus
closed the distance between them his hand stilling hers."No."
he barely breathed the word, though Hermione felt the warmth of his
answer blow across her neck."I've
never done this before, Hermione." he whispered, his voice low:
soft.She
looked up to him, "Neither have I.""Then
we will teach each other." he said, his lips sweeping across hers,
and his hands unfastening the buttons of her shirt. Severus let his
fingers graze the skin of her chest, pushing her blouse over her
shoulders, kissing down her arms as he pulled the fabric from her
wrists.He folded
the shirt gently across the bed, circling behind her and sweeping her
hair away from her neck before stooping to place a kiss at the bottom
of her hairline. Severus let his palms trace up and down her arms,
across her back, letting his fingertips touch every bit of her skin.
He listened intently to her breathing, every inhale and exhale, every
hitch in her breath telling him what pleased her, what made her skin
prickle. He studied her; memorized her.Severus
turned to face her, his eyes taking in the swell of her breast, the
curve of her belly, the patch of tiny freckles just above her
waistline.He looked
to her, keeping his eyes fixed to hers. "You are exquisite."Hermione
smiled modestly, closing the distance between them and reaching for
Severus' shirt. She slipped her tiny hand in between his draping
hair and neck; kissing him on the skin just above his collar."I see
your affinity for buttons stemmed from childhood," she said
laughingly before undoing his tie and the top two buttons."Buttons?"
Severus choked out his voice slightly higher than his usual timbre.Hermione
ignored his question and undid the next two buttons exposing more of
his skin that she dutifully traced with her mouth. She made quick
work of his shirt showing it the same appreciation as she laid it
neatly on top of hers.Hermione
turned back to him, relaxing in the heat he generated. Taking in his
outline in the low light of the room. She seen how lean he was, and
how tall, thinking his uniform made him seem diminished: weighed down
even.Hermione
noticed Severus watching her tensely. She smiled, stepping in closer
to him her arms encircling his waist and letting her headrest against
his chest. She listened to the thump of his heart as she let her
hands roam across his back, down his shoulder and along his right arm
before returning to his neck. She turned her head, intent on
lavishing his left side with the same attention when she stopped-
Hermione reached out to the smooth skin of his forearm; it was pale,
unblemished by the Dark Mark she knew him to bare in her own time.
She bent his arm at the elbow bringing it to her lips, letting her
mouth sweep across his skin; blinking back tears.Severus
buried his hands into her hair, kissing her soundly on the lips
before leading her towards the bed.Hermione
raised herself onto the mattress keeping her gaze focused on Severus
as he stood over her. She pulled him in close to her, her face coming
level with his navel. She let the flat of her palm run across his
stomach before bringing her nimble fingers to the buttons of his
trousers.Severus'
breath hitched the moment her skin touched against his, just above
the fabric of his pants. Hermione lowered his trousers over his hips,
down his thigh, letting them drop to the floor in a heap around his
feet. Severus bent to retrieve them from the ground before folding
them across the end of the bed. He stood straight in front of her,
his hands gangly at his sides.Tentatively: experimentally, she let her fingers brush against the
bulge beneath his pants. Severus' knees buckled, his arms reaching
out against the bed to steady himself. He gave Hermione a wicked
grin."You'll
be my undoing," he hissed.He kept
his head down, his face barely touching the top of her knees,
breathing in heavily, before he planted a kiss against her leg. He
let his hands clasp lightly against her calf, moving his hands up and
down her skin, before removing her shoe one foot at a time.Severus
let his eyes follow the path of his hands from the tip of her toes,
to her shins, up towards her knees, until finally stopping at the
bottom hem of her skirt. He glanced up questioningly at Hermione.Hermione
reached for the buttons on the side of her skirt, sliding them from
their fabric catches before nodding to Severus.A gleam
pulsed through Severus eyes as he slowly slid his hands up under her
skirt, feeling the warm skin tingle under his touch before moving to
grasp the material.Hermione
used his shoulders to help lift her hips, letting Severus pull her
skirt down her legs. She watched as he piled it on top of their
growing mound of discarded clothing. A shiver ran through Hermione at
the ravenous look on his face. She reached for him, pulling him
towards her as she reclined back against the bed.She felt
his weight collide against her, his breath sweet and hot against her
cheek, the down of his legs brushing against the sleek of her own,
and his hair tickling her collarbone."Show
me how to touch you, Hermione." he murmured before slipping his
lips against hers.





--------




28. I
don't want to live here alone."Severus?"
Hermione asked, nudging in nearer to him on his small bed."Hmm?"
he hummed sleepily, one arm under her head the other flung across his
face."Are
you really going to do his homework?"Severus
stayed quiet for a moment before letting out a great bellow of
laughter. "Hermione, I would do the Potions homework, including
essays and exams for all of Hogwarts if it meant I could have you in
my bed every night."Hermione
smiled before heaving herself upright on the bed."Its
getting early, I should head up to the girls dormitory before anyone
wakes," she said fishing under the covers for her clothing.Severus
sat up with her, placing small kisses across her shoulders as she
tried to pull her jumper over her head."Early?
It's hardly dawn." he said his voice thick with sleep still
trying to kiss her around her clothing."Severus
its past dawn, and nearing breakfast." she said playfully, relaxing
into his chest as he slipped his arms around her.There was
a knock at the door. Severus darted quickly for his trousers slipping
them on as he crossed towards the door. He opened it a fraction."The
bloke down stairs said I could find Hermione Granger up here." said
a boy with a look of confusion and then disgust as he took in Severus
undress.Severus
reached out for the scroll, "I will give it to her," he said
stiffly shutting the door with a snap.Severus
looked down at the parchment before handing it to Hermione, "It's
from Dumbledore."Hermione
sighed pulling on her skirt before unrolling the scroll. "He's
found the last one; Harry and I are to meet him tonight before the
Halloween Feast."Severus
turned away from her, moving to pick up his shirt."Could
he do it; your brother, would he succeed if he were to go back on his
own?" he asked softly.Hermione's
heart clinched painfully, "No, and what is more there's no
guarantee that either of us will be successful when we go back."Severus
looked at her irritably, his voice harder than she had ever heard it,
"Then why you, or him, this is the whole Wizarding worlds problem,
is it not? Surely there are others more authoritative; you have yet
to finish your seventh year in your own time.""I
suppose your sick of hearing this, but it is complicated."
she said noticing the irony of one of the key players in the war
telling her it wasn't her fight or Harry's."Then
make it less complicated and explain to me, why you must leave? Why
not stop the war here in this time, surely this criminal is alive
now, kill him before he even starts the war." he said, his voice
rising above its deceptively intense calm.Hermione
rubbed at her face, "I wish it were that simple, but…""Do not
say it is complicated, or you can not tell me… I want to know why
you have to leave, why you!" he said his hands closing in tight
fists, the air around him seemed to dissipate, as if his anger were
sucking it."We
cannot stop the war now because…" she stopped focusing her
thoughts on how much to tell him.She took
a deep breath, "Harry is the only one who can stop this war, he's
the only one who can face it, more than that, he can't face V- the
villain now because the magic he needs to succeed hasn't been given
to him yet and I've made a promise to Harry," she said softly,
tears forming in her eyes."Then
when are you to leave? Will you have to go back right away, will I be
able to see you before…." he asked his eyes dark, and his lips
thinned."I will
come and find you before I go," she said sadly.Severus
stared at her, his arms at his side."I'm
sorry, Severus.""Could
you come back? After you do whatever it is you need to do, would come
back here, even if it's a year from now." his voice just above a
whisper.Hermione
shook her head, "The things that you do in your life are very
important, though you might not always feel that they are, but my
being here would greatly affect those things and many, many people
could suffer from it."Severus
looked at her, his hair framing his face darkly; Hermione could
practically hear his mind screaming that he could not care less what
happened to the other people."What
if I want to be selfish?" he asked quietly."It
isn't your choice to make, Severus. I have to help Harry," she
said miserably.A growl
tore from his throat. "I don't understand, you speak in nothing
but riddles. Why Harry? What magic does he gain? Why am I so
important? I have no great desires, Hermione, how could I affect a
war that has yet to start?"Hermione
starred at him, staggered, "I can't tell you."Severus
strode up the length of the dormitory, pacing in agitation.Hermione
watched him, the wind fluttering his open shirt, "You're a great
wizard, Severus. You might not have great desires, but your life,
what you do with your life: it is very important."Severus
turned away from her, buttoning his shirt slowly. Hermione was sure
he wouldn't speak again and began slipping her shoes on."It
would be less difficult for me to watch you go, if I were to know
that I would see you again," he said softly, as he turned to face
her.Hermione
let out a long sigh, "We do see each other again, but not under the
same circumstances. You're older than me in my time," she gave
him a small smile, 'and to be honest you don't like me very
much."Severus
raised an eyebrow. "I hardly believe that. You have the annoying
ability to make most anyone fancy you.""Its
true, I'd even go as far to say, that you despise me, and are quite
notorious for calling me an insufferable know-it-all."Severus
snorted."Do we
work together?" he asked faintly.Hermione
shook her head tensely, "I cannot tell you, Severus. Just know that
we will see each other again.""What
harm will it do to tell me if we work together?" He asked
furiously."We
don't work together, we're not lovers, and we're not friends. I
am nothing to you!" she shouted, angry tears streaming down her
face. "I wish I didn't have to go back, Severus, I wish more than
anything that I could ignore all the rules, all the reasons I have to
go, so I could stay here with you. But I can't," she sucked in a
great shuddering breath before sobbing. "I can't."Severus
moved forward, his eyes heavy with sorrow, as he looked at Hermione's
face seeming so lost, so overwhelmed. He sat next to her on his bed,
his hands feeling useless at his sides as he watched her body quake
with sadness."I
don't think you'll ever be nothing to me." he said slowly.Hermione
let out a half sob-half laugh. "I should apologize, for dragging
you into this, but I'm not sorry. This time with you, this small
glimpse at what a extraordinary man you were, you are… its…"
she starred at him, all the words she wanted to say stuck in her
throat.. "I don't know how to explain it."Severus
looked to the far wall, before turning back to her, "Find me: when
you go back, please make me a promise. I can't know how I'll
feel in twenty years but I know how I feel now, and I want you to
find me, Hermione. No matter what." he said vehemently.Hermione
bit back a sob, how could she find him, when all of the Wizarding
World couldn't. She nodded to him, wiping at her face. "I will,
Severus."The Great
Hall was already being decorated for the Halloween feast by the time
Hermione and Severus walked in for breakfast. The majority of the
house tables sat empty, with only a few students scattered across
them, hunched sleepily over their meals. Hermione sat down next to
Severus pulling a few slices of toast towards her and feeling that
even that would be too much for her overwrought stomach.She was
scared, terrified even. Tonight when she would leave with the
Headmaster and Harry they would be venturing into another maze of
Voldemorts making; and really, who knew what sort of things sat
guarding this Horcrux. Then if they were to succeed, they would
travel back to their own time to face him again. Hermione sucked in a
deep breath, she had already lost one of her best friends trying to
defeat Voldemort, lost her teachers, her classmates, hundreds and
hundreds of witches and wizards and now, she would try again with
only Harry at her side.Hermione
tried to keep her breathing even, occupying her hands with the tedium
action of buttering her toast, making long strokes, breathing in
through her nose and out through her mouth.She
noticed a movement to her left, turning she saw Severus taking
several quick bites before taking a serviette and stacking some fruit
and toast in it before putting in his cloak pocket.Before
she could ask what he was doing, he said, "This is silly, we have
less than eight hours left with each other and I'm not about to
waste them in the Great Hall. All of Hogwarts is open to us, and I
intend to see all of it before you leave."Hermione
smiled, "Where to first?"They
walked for hours, pass the lake, up towards the stables, passing
Hagrid who was digging up great pumpkins for his garden. The both of
them keeping up steady conversation. They had just passed the
Quidditch pitch and were nearing the Whomping willow when Black, and
Potter had darted in front of them."Out
for a stroll?" quipped Potter.Hermione
looped her arm through Severus' ignoring the duo and headed back
towards the lake."Oh,
now don't leave yet?" said Black sidestepping in front of
Severus.James
circled around towards Hermione. "I heard you're going back to
Durmstrang tomorrow. What's poor Snivelly going to do?"Hermione
gritted her teeth, holding back the urge to slap the haughty look off
his face.Black was
standing very close to Severus, his nose almost touching Severus'."You
going to miss your girlfriend, Snivellus?" he asked, "You're
not going to start snivelling everywhere are you, I know we call you
Snivellus but I don't think my stomach could actually take watching
you blubber over a girl. "Hermione
rolled her eyes and pushed pass them roughly, leaving them standing
and starring after them."I
swear those two are the most idiotic, pathetic boys I've ever met."
she scoffed. "Now where were we," she added sweetly, smiling and
looking up to Severus, who had a furrowed indentation on his brow."Oh,
Severus. Please, don't let them ruin what little time we have."Severus
seemed to shake himself, "I believe I was about to ask you about
your teachers, and your favourite classes, back in your own time."Hermione
looked out over the grounds, thinking about the last time she had
seen any of her teachers, "I like all my classes, well except
Divination, which is complete rot.""We
don't have that course." he said thoughtfully."Well
count yourself lucky. It was terrible, I stayed for half a term
before walking out, when the Professor told me that, I did not
possess an inner eye.Severus
nodded, "A load of guess work if you ask me."Hermione
laughed, "I really enjoy Transfiguration, Arthimacy, Potions."
she said."Do
McGonagall, Slughorn and Vector still teach those?"Hermione
faltered, "They do." she said quickly. Thinking that technically
that was not a lie. Since Slughorn was teaching Potions before he
died."That
surprises me about Slughorn, I've overheard him talking about
retiring in the next four or five years.""Hmm,
so what about you? What are your favourite classes.""Potions,
Defence against the Darks Arts, Herbology, and possibly History of
Magic if the could hire someone else to teach it." he said giving
her a small cheeky grin as they passed the vegetable garden."Professor
Binns, not doing the subject justice?""Hardly,
and I swear every time he even goes near a topic that might be
half-way decent to listen to, he makes his voice purposefully
monotone just to bore us."Hermione
nodded, "I agree, I thought the Goblin-wars would be interesting to
listen to, but almost the whole class had fallen asleep by the time
he was through. I remember how Ron and Harry would always fall
asleep, Ron especially, he always asks to read my notes after class."
she laughed, wistfully. "Before our O.W.L.S he had tried to read
through almost four years of notes the night before the exam."Severus
looked at her incredulously, "Don't tell me he passed?"Hermione
laughed, "Of course not.""He
seemed like he was a decent wizard." said Severus quietly."He
was," she gave a small laugh, "and he would have fainted had he
ever heard you say that.""Why's
that?" he asked as entered the walkways that headed towards the
gardens behind the dining hall.Hermione
sighed, "You're not particularly fond of him either."Severus
frowned, "I don't seem to be fond of anyone by your account."Hermione
laughed, "You're a very private wizard in my own time, and you
have to remember that Ron, Harry and I are all underage and I think
that has a huge effect on how you perceive us.""I can
understand why I don't like your brother, he's cheeky and
reckless, and I can't say why I wouldn't like Ron, but I'm sure
if he waits so long for his studies we probably wouldn't get on
well, but you… I think you and I are very similar; maybe in your
time, I don't get on well with you because you associate with those
two boys."Hermione
smirked, "Possibly." she said.Severus
raised his eyebrow, "Though you are a bit cheeky as well."They sat
on a bench in the middle of the rose garden behind the Great Hall."Its
very pretty here." she said, watching the sunlight dance about the
leaves and petals of the flowers."Would
you like something to eat?" he asked holding out an apple and small
stack of toast."No,
thank you… I'm a bit too nervous to eat." she said shyly
looking out at the horizon and wondering how much time had pass.Severus
bit into his apple, placing the others back into his robes. "This
weapon, will it be guarded?" he asked softly.Hermione
nodded, "It will be.""By
wizards or jinxes?""Jinxes
most likely, curses maybe inferi again." she said her voice barely
above a whisper.Severus'
eyes widened. "You've faced inferi?"Hermione
looked to Severus, his mouth parted and his apple poised in mid-bite.
"I have." she said simply"There
are grown wizards who can not face those creatures…"Hermione
felt the impact of her "adventures", she had truly faced some
incredible things over her years at Hogwarts with Harry and Ron at
her side."I've
never really thought of it like that… all the situations I've
been in, it was instinct I suppose. I -"She
stopped for Severus had seemed to freeze, her heart lurched.."Severus!"
she shouted as he fell with a clunk to the stone bench.A peel of
laughter rang out through the garden. Hermione spun around her wand
at ready."James
Potter and Sirius Black, you show yourself this instant or I will
turn you both into the pigs your really are." she shouted whipping
her head from side to side trying to make out any movement about the
bushes.She
turned her wand on Severus, "Ennverate." she thought making use
of her non-verbal spells.Severus
shot up from the bench his wand flying out from the sleeve of his
robe. "Are you alright?" he asked?Hermione
nodded, momentarily stunned at what an impressive and dangerous
figure he made."I
believe they have an invisibility cloak," he said, pressing his
back against Hermione's. "Do not hesitate, whatever spell you
have in your care, should be used to its fullest extent." he spoke
in agitated whisper before sending a spell at rose bush that seemed
to rustle, reducing it to nothing but smouldering ash.Hermione
felt a movement near her foot and shot a leg locker spell towards her
right, it bounded off the stone steps ricocheting down the pathway
towards the greenhouses.Severus
and Hermione moved together in small circle, keeping their wands at
ready. The gardens were quiet not even the wind dared to move."Do you
suppose they've gone?" she asked."I
doubt it." he said scathingly. "Though I suppose we can't very
well…"He
started to say, stopping when Hermione, catching sight of what she
was sure was a boys trainer, fired the Tarantallegra hex at it. She
knew she had connected with her intended target as the lone leg
convulsed and danced in quick jerking movements, throwing Sirius into
the thorny rose bushes and pulled the cloak from James' body
exposing him to Severus' Locomotor Mortis jinx, which snapped
Potter's legs together and sent him sprawling to the ground.Hermione
summoned Potter and Blacks wand, while Severus bonded Black together
with the same jinx they had used against him only moments before.Black and
Potter slumped together, their faces impassive but Hermione could
tell by the enraged fuming in their eyes that they were livid."Should
we have Filch come and get them?" asked Hermione.Severus
starred at the boys before bending down to where the cloak had
fallen. He stood holding the material in his hands, letting it sift
through his fingers."I
should keep this, Potter." he said glowering at James.Hermione
watched them, her head shifting back and forth between the Severus
standing, proud and vengeful and Potter frozen in anger below him,
Black flipped on his belly, his face grinding into the ground.Severus
let the material fall from his hands, half of it covering the boys
the other part pooling in a pile next to them."They
can stay like this, until someone notices them missing." he said
his voice, hard and cold.Hermione
felt that his retaliation was more than fair, "Come on, Severus, I
still would like to see the lake before the sun goes down." she
said, aware that Potter and Black had stole more of their precious
time left together.AN: Thanks for sticking
with me after such a long time of not updating… this chapter was
crazy hard to write… and if anyone's wondering, where the "scene"
of the two is… Fan Fiction doesn't allow MA stories so I'm not
about to post MA stories… it is on adult fan fiction under the same
name if you want to read it, but please understand that its an 18 or
older site. Thanks again to all of you for reading and reviewing and
a big hand to LittleMarySunshine for betaing for Fan fiction… she's
been terrific, beyond terrific.





--------




29. And the boy cried wolf.Severus sat at the Slytherin table looking out over
the sea of students and felt bitterness towards all of them. All
chatting each other up about the mundane an trifling rot they
considered essential to their life when in a little under twenty
years the whole Wizarding world would be thrown into a war, a war
that would be taking away the only comfort he had ever known; and for
what, these cattle, these unworthy, dim-witted fools that were to be
unleashed onto the world before long and then their children, which
would most certainly act no better.Severus hated all of them, he stood up in disgust
storming from the hall and away from the noise, from the smell, from
every sense that reminded him of how useless they were to have her
fighting for them, how ungrateful.He pushed open the front doors intent on the calm of
the lake to ease his ire, when he saw a shadow pass over the grounds.
Quickly, he moved behind a pillar watching as Madam Pomfrey hurried a
cloaked figure pass the greenhouses. Severus' eyes narrowed,
peering inquisitively at the pair as they stopped at the Whomping
Willow, its branches thrashing about only to suddenly halt. Severus
moved out from his shadowy pillar watching the hooded figure
disappear INTO the tree as Madam Pomfrey turned back to the castle.Madame Pomfrey shut the great doors behind her,
leaving a hidden Severus standing in the courtyard and debating his
next move. He wanted badly to know who had vanished into the Whomping
Willow, a gut feeling telling him it had something to do with Potter.He hesitated then sprinted towards the tree,
stopping up short of its thrashing limbs. Thinking of how Pomfrey
might have stopped the branches, "Immobulus" he pointed
his wand at the tree, annoyed when the leaves gave an extra shake in
contempt.Severus braced himself taking one step closer
towards the tree, he exhaled, satisfied with---"Ummph" he thumped hard on the ground ten paces
back from where he stood after receiving a good thrashing in the gut.A loud grating snort filled the night, "I must
admit its hilarious watching that tree beat the snot out of you,
Snivelly," said Black, leaning against a nearby yew tree his arms
folded in front of him."By all means, try again."Severus stood glaring at Black before starting back
towards the castle.Black caught up with him in two strides, "Don't
you want to know what's hidden in that old tree?" he asked
cuffing Snape on the shoulder.Severus shrugged him off, angrily, spinning around
and shoving Black from him. "Do not touch me," he snarled.Black held up his hands in defence, "Fine, I
suppose you won't want to hear about the notch you press to make
the branches freeze, then," he said curtly.Severus raised his eyebrow in doubt, "You expect
me to believe anything out of your filthy and deceitful mouth?"Black clucked his tongue, turning back and walking
straight up to the tree, picking up a discarded branch and plunging
it into the base of the tree, just above the root. Instantly the
limbs, halted and a small hole could be seen carved into the tree.Severus looked to Black sharply, "Who went down
there?" he asked.Black shook his head, "I didn't see
anyone go down there.""Then how do you know how to stop the branches?"
he asked coldly."I know lots of things about Hogwarts," he
shrugged, "But you've got twenty seconds to get through hole
before you're throttled, not that I wouldn't mind seeing you
punted all the way back to school." he said, throwing down the
switch and striding pass Severus, knocking his arm as he went.Severus looked to Black's retreating back before
diving towards the base and sliding down the gap."See you, Snivelly." sniggered Black as the tree
started swaying violently.Black walked up the stairs and into the castle, his
mood significantly improved since Filch had released them from
Snivellus' and that trumped up Granger girl's freezing charm
earlier that evening. Thinking back on it though, he would gladly
serve the detention scrubbing out bedpans now that it meant he would
never have to see The Greasy Git again, and tomorrow the little chit
would go back to Durmstrang… perfect!"Hey, Prongs!" called Black to James'
retreating form, an arm draped around Lilly's shoulders.James pecked Lilly on the cheek before trotting over
to Black, "Alright, Padfoot?" he asked."More than alright, mate." he said cheerily.James gave him a questioning stare, "Why's
that?"Black smirked, "Let's just say, ol' Snivelly
will finally be out of our hair."Potter smiled, "That is good news! Did he get
expelled, do himself in now that his girlfriends leaving?" he asked
pushing pass a second year on the stairs.Black sniggered, "No we owe our thanks to Mooney."James stopped short, "What!""Yep, Snivelly was sneaking around like the great
prat that he is and saw Madame Pomfrey taking Remus over to Whomping
Willow. Snape was trying to get the tree to stop thrashing him, and
its bad luck you missed him being thrown clear across… the…
grounds…. What?" finished Black looking at the incredulous look
James was giving him."You let him go into the tree, Sirius? It's a
full moon tonight, if he gets to the shack he'll be killed…"Black laughed, "That's what I'm planning on…"
he started to say before James grabbed him by the shoulders."You prat, we'll be expelled! Remus…. Merlin,
Sirius, Remus will be killed, you know the Ministry won't let him
live if he attacks someone." he said his voice a fierce whisper.Black's face paled, "I didn't… I didn't
think of it like that…""We've got to stop him," said James.Black just stared at him."Sirius, we've got to help Snape!"James turned fighting his way back down the stairs
against all students clamouring up to their dormitories."James, wait!" called Black: blocked on the
stairwell where two hallways met.James sprinted across the great hall out the double
doors and into the night. His stomach clenching painfully when he saw
that the moon was full and low in the sky.Severus felt like he had been walking for ages. His
feet were sore, he was tired, and the air in the tunnel was stale and
hot. More than that, he felt foolish. He should have never listened
to Black, never have let his curiosity get the best of him. For all
he knew this tunnel went all the way to London and Severus would
never be able to get… he stopped.He listened hard, sweat dripping into his eyes. Up
ahead he could hear a faint growl, perhaps it was more a scratching
sound. Severus stepped slowly, keeping his stride silent against the
pebbles underfoot.He veered to the right as the path shifted and was
hit full in the face with a rancid and soured smell. He pulled his
jumper up over his nose, trying to gulp in some clean air to keep
from gagging.Again, he heard the sound, this time a bit louder:
clearer, almost like the splintering of boards. Severus walked
onward, his eyes having adjusted to the low light, barely making out
the incline of the path.Severus ducked his head under the low ceiling his
hands digging into the dirt as he heaved himself up-"Snape!" Potter shouted grabbing around his
ankle and making Severus slip down the embankment.A terrorizing howl tore through the passageway.
Severus whipped his head around, his eyes level with the top of the
incline. The sound of thumping, and snarling then the eerie pierce of
wood straining before finally the splintering of wood."RUN!" bellowed James, pulling on Severus. "Come
on!" he yelled again, when Snape did not move.There above him, fifteen paces ahead, stood the
outline of a werewolf, its teeth barred and its eyes ferocious.Severus could not think, could not breathe, and felt
nothing but an overwhelming fear that encompassed his whole body.James pushed him away from Remus, "Severus, you
have to get out of here, he will kill you." his voice was hard, and
terrified.Severus took one look at James standing there,
starring at him the werewolf looming over his shoulder in the
background, and turned to run.He heard a pop and then the sound of snarling again
as he ran at a frenzied pace all the way to the entrance of the
tunnel.Severus burst through into the night air getting
whipped and lashed by the trees branches but feeling nothing as he
fell collapsing to the ground retching all over the dewy grass."Snape, where's James?" said someone above
him, shaking his shoulders as he tried to stand.Blacks face blurred before him."Where's James!" he demanded.Severus felt rage well up inside of him,
obliterating any fear he sensed seconds before. He let his fist fly,
slamming it into Blacks face, sending him sprawling to the ground.
Severus dropped on top of him, his hands balled in fury, punching
Black with out consciousness.James was above them, pulling on Severus' robe and
shoulders fighting release Black."Snape!" Bellowed James, throwing Severus from
Blacks bleeding form.Severus knelt panting on the ground, his eyes hard,
seething, watching as James helped Black up.The three all stood starring at each other,
resentment wafting about them like a dense wind.Finally Severus stood, pushing his hair from his
face, backing away slowly from James and Black before turning and
sprinting towards the castle.





--------




30.
I know I've left you in places of despair.Hermione
followed Harry and the Headmaster across the dusky grounds at a brisk
pace; their cloaks flapping around their respective heals. She felt
the chill of the air slink around her, as the warmth of the castle
receded behind them, and pulled her collar up around her neck.The
Headmaster tapped his wand against the chain that linked around the
gate, pushing open the iron and allowing Harry and Hermione to
precede him."We
shall only be walking a bit further, before we apparate." said
Dumbledore, tapping his wand against the chains again so they locked
in place."Apparating,
Sir?" asked Harry keeping in step with the Headmaster."Yes,
I presume you both know how?" he looked questioningly over his
glasses."Yes,
Sir." said Hermione"But,
how will we know where to apparate, sir." asked Harry.Dumbledore
nodded once, his face momentarily bemused before he smiled warmly at
Harry."Quite
right, I believe side-along apparation should do the trick." he
said stopping in mid-stride on the pathway to Hogsmeade."If
you'd both take hold." he held out his arm as if he were about to
conduct an orchestra.Hermione
gripped on to his left and Harry to the right, both glancing
nervously at the Headmaster as he tucked his arms into his sides."Now,
Miss. Granger, if you'd be so kind as to turn with me we shall not
delay." he smiled benignly as he steered her sharply towards Harry.There
was a resounding crack and an overwhelming tightening in her gut
before she felt her feet stumble onto ground again.The
night had fallen around them, shrouding their surroundings in deep
shadows draped with a translucent sheen from the moon: low and full
in the sky. Hermione squinted in the dark, taking in the tall and
looming trees to her left, leaving her with a heavy dread at
Voldemorts preferred choice of defence. Having no desire to
experience the sensation of a tree wrapping about her limbs again she
huddled in closer to the Headmaster and Harry, more for comfort but
warmth as well, being that air seemed chillier here than at Hogwarts.They
seemed to have apparated into a garden of sorts, though it lacked any
congenial feelings or serenity. It felt abandoned, wild and sinister
with its overgrown foliage, and large hallowed stumps where trees had
split and fallen under the suffocating grasp of overrun ivy. There
were statues, or what had once been statues, strewn about the yard,
their crumbling pieces sinking beneath the wall of weeds.Clouds
drifted over the moon, heaving them in utter darkness. Hermione lit
her wand to illuminate the rest of the garden, finally noticing the,
well not so much a house but a sad imitation of one. "More of a
shed, really" Hermione thought."What
is this place?" asked Harry.Dumbledore
lowered his wand light to set his gaze upon Harry."Until
very recently it was Voldemorts residence. He has since left Albania
and has started venturing west.""Albania?"
Harry's eyes widened.Dumbledore
nodded, "This is a guest-house if you will," Gesturing towards
the house. "For Voldemort when he needs a bit of respite from his
recruiting.""What
has made him decide to leave such charming views?" asked Hermione
derisively.Dumbledore's
mouth quirked, "Employment I gather.""How
could he think anyone would ever hire him?" Hermione said her voice
full of incredulity."You
forget the times Miss. Granger. Lord Voldemort is hardly a whisper to
the Wizarding World at the moment. They hear only of strange
disappearances, or the odd misfortune of an unlucky few. It has yet
to reach the pandemic you two have grown up with.""He's
heading to Hogwarts?" Harry sounded brusque and concerned.Dumbledore
nodded, "I believe so," he said solemnly.The
Headmaster stepped closer to the cabin. "Let us continue."Hermione
followed close behind Harry. Her wand, held firmly at her side,
lighting the steps to the hovel."Stay
here a moment," said Dumbledore as he circled the structure, his
cloak catching on branches and weeds.Finally,
he stepped back in front of the door, extracting a large key from out
of his pocket. Hermione distantly wondered how he had managed to
acquire the key to Voldemorts "quarters" but the thought was
quickly vanished after the door clicked open.It
was not really a room at all; instead, a large hallway appeared
before them, its masonry coated with roots and ivy fighting there way
in between the cracks. Moreover, it seemed to continue on for miles,
stretching beyond the ray of light their combined wands made, into
bleak emptiness.The
moon slid out from behind the clouds as Harry and Hermione followed
the Headmaster into the passageway.Hermione
had lost track of how long they had been walking trying to keep count
of how many steps she had trudged, and how many minutes they had
already been gone; an hour at the very, very least.The
tunnel had shrunk, gradually at first, until now, the Headmaster
walked stooped and Harry seemed to be doubling over to keep from
bumping his head against the roof. Hermione was sure if the tunnel
kept up its decline the three of them would all be crawling on their
bellies. "Like snakes" she thought fleetingly, tucking her nose
more firmly into her jumper as the stench of decomposing soil wafted
up in the air.Harry
stopped abruptly, causing Hermione to stagger into him. The pathway
had stopped. Hermione tried standing taller on the balls of her feet
without scraping her head against the low ceiling; there was nothing
but solid wall ahead of them. She took a step back and instantly
connected with another very solid wall, one she was quite certain had
not been there before."Headmaster."
she said, cautiously.Dumbledore
turned from his wall, "Yes, Miss- It seems we have no choice but to
keep going.""But,
sir, its blocked." said Harry gesturing wildly at the small,
cramped cell they had inadvertently locked themselves in.Dumbledore smiled, "Then I'm afraid we have no choice but to go
down." he dropped lower, almost kneeling on the ground and plunged
his wand straight down into the soil underfoot.Hermione
had only ever experienced the feeling of having the ground give way
from under her, and the empty breathless feeling of falling from
heights while on Muggle travelling fair rides. It was not an
experience she liked to be subjected to, ever: especially when Dark
Wizards, protecting bits of their souls, had designed it.She
had expected to land on hard ground; bone breaking ground, not the
raw and piercing sting of her body plunging into glacial tempered
waters. The water flooded into her mouth, freezing her lungs as she
struggled to cough; to breathe; to fight her way from under the
surface. She clawed at her cloak, shredding it from her body as she
kicked furiously towards the top.The
water seemed to be seeping into her, permeating her very centre with
an overpowering sense of sorrow. Horrible thoughts flashed rapidly
through her mind, feeling heavy in her heart, and making her struggle
to fight useless. Her arms began to weaken; there was so much
sadness. Hundreds of faces flitted across her thoughts, lifeless on
bloodied snow. Hermione felt herself sinking, her eyes drifting shut
as one last thought whispered through her mind, "she would never
be able to keep her promise to Severus." All went black.Cold,
overwhelmingly bitter cold, that was all she could feel. Hermione
opened her eyes experimentally and panic washed over her. Darkness
enveloped her, as if she could not force open her eyes. She passed a
hand over face, watching the shadow of her palm dispel the night in
front of her. Hermione relaxed her breathing, slowly letting her
sight adjust."Harry!
Headmaster?" she called out."Hermione."
spluttered Harry next to her."Are
you two alright?" asked the Headmaster."Yes,
sir.""Sir,
what was that?" spoke Harry, shuffling to his feet and hauling
Hermione up next to him."I
am afraid I have no answer for that. Though I could hazard a guess
that it might possibly be a creation of Voldemorts most horrifying
memories and that of his followers.""Like
a Pensieve?" asked Hermione."Perhaps.""Sir,
what would have happened had we sunk?" said Harry."Something
most unpleasant I am certain.""I
was sinking," she said to Harry before looking to the Headmaster.
"I couldn't swim any longer… how… how did I get out?" she
looked around from the platform they were standing on, the water
looked so still that it resembled marble, so solid that one could
walk on it."The
Headmaster pulled us out," said Harry quietly at her side, nodding
once to Dumbledore.Dumbledore
nodded, "I did, though a happy thought will banish most unpleasant
memories, Miss. Granger. Now, let us move on." he said gesturing
towards a small gap at the top of the steps and in between two of the
four large boulders that made up the walls.Hermione
turned sideways to make her way out of the small passageway, her shoe
catching on a rock as she slid out and into a room so vast it made
the Great Hall look like a cupboard. The walls were high, ominous,
and flat. A wide opening seemed etched into the ceiling where the
lake sat above them suspended: the moon reflected in its waters,
giving the room a greenish-hue. A table of sorts, sat at the far end
of the room; raised high in the air on a platform overlooking the
entire area. A single chair sat behind it, looking as arrogant and
intimidating as its owner.Hermione
looked at Harry, in a silent enquiry. If ever a placed reeked of
Voldemort, it would be this room.Slowly
they followed the Headmaster up to the dais, their boots making not a
sound against the hard marble floors.Hermione
glanced down at the eerily lit ground and felt her stomach twist in
disgust at the sight of the deep stains, like a revolting varnish,
that littered the floor."I
do believe we've found the last Horcrux." spoke Dumbledore
softly.There
on the table sat Helga Hufflepuff's chalice, the bronze badger
glinting in an unnatural gleam of blue-green light.The
Headmaster pulled back the chair, and stood directly in front of the
cup. Tentatively, he swept his wand back and forth, up and down,
covering all sides of the cup."Is
that you Dumby?" said a rasping, growling voice, that made the hair
on Hermione's neck stand on in.Dumbledore
stepped in front of Harry and Hermione blocking them as best he could
from view. There at the bottom of the steps, Hermione could make out
the enormous and feral silhouette of Fenrir Greyback. He was younger,
Hermione noticed, but no less vicious or terrifying."Fenrir,"
said Dumbledore politely, watching the massive man manoeuvre around
the moonlight the painted the middle of the floor, keeping to the
shadowed edges as he stalked nearer to them."What's
this, Dumby? You've brought me presents?" he snarled.Dumbledore
shifted them closer behind them, "Fortunately for them I have not.""Tsk,
tsk, Dumby. You know it isn't polite to come into a man's home
without an offering." Fenrir's throaty tones, seemed to bark out
at them as he spoke."Oh?"
said Dumbledore idly, watching as a cloud covered the moons gleam and
throwing the room in near-darkness. "I was under the impression
these were Voldemort's lodgings."Fenrir
snarled at Dumbledore's flippant use of his master's name."That's
one thing of the things I hate about you Dumby, you never did know
when to shut your yap."Fenrir
seemed to ready to pounce as he sidestepped closer to them, almost
directly under where the moonlight was sure to filter in.Dumbledore
hissed quietly and quickly at Harry and Hermione. "When I say, I
want you both to run immediately to the cave's door, he will not be
able to fit through." He gave Harry a stern glance before gripping
his wand more firmly in his hand and turning to Greyback."One
of my many failings I'm sure, Fenrir." said the Headmaster.Greyback
stood tall in the centre of the room, his arms tense and fixed at his
sides. The water rippled as the clouds drifted pass, bathing the room
and Fenrir in its light."Now!"
Bellowed the Headmaster, as he threw two stones into the air,
transfiguring them in mid-fall.Two
immense lions thudded to ground sprinting towards the transforming
were-wolf and converging on them in thunderous roars and howls.Hermione
eyed the caverns door some, twenty paces in front of them, their way
was clear as Dumbledore grappled with Fenrir, but they were so close,
and had come so far. To leave now, to leave the last Horcrux that
would destroy Voldemort forever was too great a failure.Hermione
sprinted back to the table and reached out for the cup, amidst Harrys
shrieking commands to stop.Instantly,
all the noise in the room vanished and Hermione was besieged with
terrible pain, pain that made her want nothing more than death. She
could feel waves and waves of it passing up her hand, into her wrist,
along her arm and spreading throughout her whole body, like fire
licking at her from the inside. It was too great for her, too
unbearable. She ached for death, anything that would stop this
devastating suffering. She could see before her the massive lions
fighting with Greyback, attacking him from all sides. Fenrir would
tear at them, shredding their manes, splitting their throats before
they would fall to the ground stones once again. She watched
Dumbledore, transfigure three more of the great lions hurtling them
at the werewolf before he locked eyes with Hermione. Horror overtook
his face at the sight of her, deifying his orders to flee.Hermione
could not stand the torrent of anguish a moment longer, she willed
her other arm to turn towards her, her wand pushing against her chest
as she tried to concentrated on the spell that would end the torture.She
closed her eyes, directing all her energy on forcing the words from
her mouth. They would not come, each time the spell seemed on the
verge of passing through her lips, her mind would shift and a random
image would filter through dulling the rage of pain that coursed
through her.The
lake at Hogwarts, the seat she liked to sit in by the fire in the
Slytherin common room. Severus, sitting next to her reading at the
dinning table, Severus throwing Black and Potter from her in the
stairwell to Arthimacy.She
could feel her fingers slipping from around the cup, making it easier
to concentrate. Dumbledore had said, that happy thoughts could dispel
even the worst of memories.Hermione
tightened her grip more firmly around the stem of the chalice,
heaving it from the table as she focused on Severus.The
cup broke free from the table and Hermione felt her knees tremble as
the pain vanished as quickly as it had started, leaving her
breathless.Harry,
rushed up to her, his arms encircling her."I
couldn't touch you, I… I couldn't even get close enough," his
voice stammered with a frenzied panic as he half held, half-dragged
her from the platform."We
have to hurry, Dumbledore can't hold him for much longer," he
said as he raced her pass the most peculiar and reassuring scene she
had ever seen.Dumbledore
stood tall, his face twisted in a rage as he aided four of the most
magnificent lions she had ever seen. Fenrir snarled at them as
Dumbledore backed him further and further away from caverns entrance.
Hermione watched a brilliant flash of light rush from the tip of the
Headmasters wand before Harry had wrenched her through the small
opening of the cave.They
had backed as far as they could away from the cavern without falling
back into the motionless waters. Hermione looked down at her hands,
the cup still clutched in her hand so tightly that the jewel
encrusted stem dug into her palm.They
had the last Horcrux.The
Headmaster passed through the tight cave walls, throwing one last
stone into the room and transfiguring it before it had even landed.He
turned towards Harry and Hermione."Quickly,"
he motioned them closer, pulling out a broken compass, "grab hold."Hermione
grasped on to a tiny spring that hung out from the side, still
clasping Hufflepuff's cup in her hand. Harry grabbed onto the door
and the Headmaster clutched the pocket chain as portkey glowed and
started spinning them up and out of the cave.Harry
and Hermione landed sprawled out on the Headmasters rug in front of
his desk. Dumbledore seemed to float behind his desk before landing
neatly in his seat."That
was a very dangerous risk you took tonight, Miss. Granger," he said
as they got to their feet."I
apologize for not following your orders, sir, but it was too great a
loss to leave it." She said, embarrassment rising to her cheeks.Dumbledore
watched her fastidiously, "Are you injured?"Hermione
shook her head, "No, sir. As soon as I lifted the cup from the
table the curse stopped."Dumbledore's
eyebrows rose high into his hairline, "Curse?""I am not
sure what it was, exactly, though I feel fine now.""May
I see it?" he asked.Hermione
gladly stepped closer to his desk, placing the cup down in front of
the Headmaster.Dumbledore
took out his wand, again passing it up and over, left and right
before tapping it with the tip of his wand."Well
done, Miss. Granger. The curse that was on here earlier is no longer,
the last Horcrux is found."These
words inflicted two emotions on Hermione, one of deep relief and one
of deep fear."When
will we have to leave?" spoke Harry quietly, looking from Hermione
then to Dumbledore.The
Headmaster watched Harry for a moment before taking out his pocket
watch, which had no numbers."An
hour, I believe." he said, snapping the watch closed and placing it
back into his cloak.Hermione
tried to swallow the lump in her throat, and hour seemed so very
short. An hour, to spend saying goodbye to Severus, and preparing to
face Voldemort, it hardly seemed possible."Thank
you, Headmaster." said Harry as he stood to stand.Hermione
nodded to Dumbledore and followed Harry out the door."Are
you alright?" asked Harry as they headed down the stone steps from
the Headmasters office."Just
a bit off," she swallowed, not quite meeting Harry's gaze, "I
don't think I'm ready to go back yet." she said quietly."I-"
Harry was cut off as Severus skidded to a halt before him, his eyes
wide, face petrified, and his cloak covered in dirt."Severus
what has happened?" asked Hermione moving in closer to him."Dumbledore,
I need to speak to Dumbledore." his words were coming out in
panicked huffs. "The willow tree, tunnel…" he was clutching his
side."The
shrieking shack?" breathed Harry, his face wide with recollection.Severus
starred at him, dumbfounded, before his eyes hardened; "You knew?"
he looked from Harry to Hermione.Hermione
felt ill, tonight was the night Severus found out about Lupin, the
night Black had tricked him into going into the tree, the night he
almost died."Severus-"
started Hermione."Did
you know?" he asked her, starring at her hard."Snape…"
started Harry."DID
YOU KNOW!" he all but bellowed, ignoring Harry completely."I
knew that it had happened to you, but not when it was supposed to
happen. Severus I-"Severus
gave her a deep disgusted look and pushed pass her roughly."Leave
me alone.""Severus,
please-""ALONE,
I said." he stormed up the steps to Dumbledore's office.Hermione
had packed in a frenzied pace, throwing what little she had acquired
into a small bag and magicing it smaller to fit in her pocket. She
had wrapped Severus' gift so carefully and so many times, it was
the size of a grapefruit. Her packing had taken her all of seven and
half minutes, yet with only twenty-three minutes left, she had spent
the last half-hour scouring the castle for Severus. She had run, full
speed up to the Headmasters office, but the Gargoyle had informed her
that a surly boy of Severus description had been seen storming from
the hall minutes before, he was however unsure as to which direction
the boy had went because he had been in the midst of a nap.Frustrated,
panicked and terrified she searched from the highest tower to the
dungeons and everywhere in between. She had checked the lake, the
Quidditch pitch, Hagrid's, and the greenhouses.Hermione
sat on a bench in the gardens behind the Great Hall, putting her head
to her palms. There was nothing for it, she would leave with Harry in
a few minutes, back to her own time, where she was to face Voldemort,
face a life in which almost everyone she knew was dead, a life where
Severus was a murder, a death eater. All because of a prank the
Sirius had pulled on Severus.A
rose bush a meter down from her erupted in a brilliant flash of fire
before disappearing entirely. Hermione jumped to her feet, her wand
at ready."Show
yourself." she said her voice hard.Severus
stepped out from behind a large bush of roses, his wand gripped
tightly in his hand.Hermione
lowered her wand, he heart thumping painfully in her throat.
"Severus" she breathed stepping closer to him.Severus
took a step back. "I have nothing to say to you.""Please
Severus, let me explain," she all but sobbed to him.Severus
turned from her, aiming his wand at another bush before setting it
ablaze."I
hadn't known it would happen now. All I knew was that Black and
Potter had played a prank on you using Lupin when he had
transformed.""It
was Lupin?" Severus whipped around starring at her.Hermione
bit back the urge to cover her face again."I
am so sorry, Severus. Had I known..""You did know!" he
hurtled his words at her viscously"I
didn't know it was in your sixth year, I didn't know anything
other than it had happened while you were at school.""And
that makes it acceptable? They tried to kill me and all you can say
is you weren't sure it was my sixth year? You should have told me."Hermione
heaved a great sigh, "There's so much I wish I could tell you
Severus. So very much."Severus
turned from her again, the night enveloping him, almost hiding him
from sight with his black robes and hair."Severus,
please, I don't have much time left. I can not leave here with you
angry at me."She
could see him stiffen before another bush exploded into nothingness."You've
found it then? The last one?""We
did." she said quietly, wanting badly to tell him how the just the
thought of him had helped her, had saved her.She
moved closer to him, timidly reaching out to touch his shoulder."Severus,
I don't want to leave." she felt tears welling up in her eyes.He
was silent for what felt like ages, just standing there his back to
her, his chest barely rising in breath."But
you will." he finally said, his words nothing more than a whisper.Hermione
felt her heart plummet; she let her hand fall from his shoulder.
Realization finally hitting her, this was why Severus hated her in
her own time, why he hated Harry, hated Gryffindor and more
importantly why he had joined Voldemort."Goodbye,
Severus." she bit her lip hard to keep the quiver out of her voice,
as Severus moved further into the darkness, the only light from the
blazing bushes he had set aflame.Hermione
took the time-turner from Dumbledore, placing the chain over her and
Harry's necks."It
has already been set Miss. Granger to the appropriate time; I do
believe you will appear seconds after your future selves have
departed."Hermione
looked to Harry."Are
you ready?" she asked."I
am."Hermione
let the coil go, watching as the time-turner started to spin.AN:
Dearest Readers, I apologize for taking such a appallingly long time
in updating, I could blame it on the holidays, but honestly this
chapter was a bugger to write. This is the end of "This Is The Way
The World Ends" part 1. Obviously there will be a part two, or some
of you will no doubt hunt me down. I hope this ten page update makes
up for my serious lack of contact.Please
review, and thank you to everyone who has.AN Part
II: Big thanks to Jo and Patty for betaing.Happy Holidays !





--------




PART TWOThis Is the Way the World Ends.Prologue: For some life offers nothing moreThan a
struggle or a war.Severus had stayed in the garden at Hogwarts for
hours, finally collapsing on a stone bench furthest from the castle.
His fingers were numb with cold, and his entire body ached from the
trials of the day. Everything in his whole life seemed to be
collapsing around him and an overwhelming anger seemed to have seeped
in; anger at Potter, Black, his mother and Father, Hermione, and
Dumbledore.Black should be punished. Even the thought
enraged Severus.He had stormed into the Headmasters office, certain
that Black would be, if not expelled, then surely reprimanded."I understand your anger, Mr. Snape." Dumbledore
had said so calmly it had made Severus want to retch.Dumbledore knew nothing of how he felt: nothing."But I must stress the importance of the
situation. Remus' condition can not be exposed, certainly you agree
Remus is not to blame, and should anyone know of this he would most
defiantly reap the burden of his friends' error." Dumbledore had
looked at him, his whole face set in an insincere expression of
concern before it hardened into a mask glaring firmness."I must have your word as a wizard that you will
not tell of Remus' condition, or of what has happened tonight in
the Shrieking Shack."Resentment and full force rage had welled up in
Severus then. Not only would Black and Potter get away with what they
had done, but also Severus would never be allowed to speak of it.Severus kicked at a pile of ashes, scowling as the
soot covered over his shoe. What did it matter if he could speak on
it? There was now no one left who might even care. Had she left yet?
She had said she had little time left; Severus shook his head, what
good would it do to even look for her, she would leave whether he
found her or not. An uneasy feeling of regret bubbled subtly in the
pit of his stomach. He should not have let his anger at Dumbledore
and Black overwhelm him. It had made his words to her harsh, uncalled
for and regrettably impossible to take back.Agitation made Severus leap to his feet, suffused in
hatred against Black and Potter, somehow he was sure they were the
cause of Hermione having to leave.Severus inhaled deeply. The night was slowly fading
from the sky leaving the grey light of morning in its place. He would
not stand for it, any longer. This was the last time he would allow
anyone to get the best of him.1. Old friends become old strangers.Hermione could just make out the flash of Ron's
red hair in the snow from behind a tall oak where she stood, before
she had seen herself vanish from the battlefield.There, not more than a yard away stood Voldemort his
face enraged as he had watched their past selves evaporate."Search the grounds! It ends tonight," he
bellowed turning to his men.Two death eaters appeared at his side one standing
further than the other."Now Harry, it's our only chance," she
whispered.Harry looked at her, his eyes wide with fear. He
nodded, "If I-, thank you Hermione." he said quickly.Hermione nodded, tears falling from her eyes before
throwing her arms around his neck.They both turned and darted from the trees.Voldemort turned, his wand raised; an amused smirk
around his snake like mouth."Avada Kedavra!" They both roared a brilliant
green ray raging from their wands.A Death Eater shot out towards Harry, before
Hermione hit him with a red streaking beam of light.The last Death Eater turned, fleeing towards the
forest. Hermione hurried after him as the spell connected with
Voldemort enveloping him in a flame of green.Limbs and frosted branches slapped at her face as
she sprinted through the woods. She could just see the flapping of
the Death Eaters cloak as he raced deeper into the forest his boots
leaving heavy imprints in the snow.Hermione dashed around a tree and halted before a
wand pointed directly at her."Expel-" her silent curse was easily deflected,
her wand landing silently in the snow a half a yard away."That's the second time I've had your wand
pointed at me Miss. Granger." Said Snape as he removed his mask.His voice sounded so familiar yet hardly
recognizable. It was Severus starring back at her, not the Professor
she had known while at school. He was there; she could see it,
flitting about his eyes almost hidden behind his sneer."Severus'" she started.A hiss escaped his lips, his wand hand clasping over
his left arm before he dropped to his knees. Hermione ran to him her
arms outstretched grazing against his shoulder before she pulled her
hands away in pain. He was cold, so cold it felt like fire."Do not touch me!" he spat, his words raw and
pained."Severus… please…" she started."HERMIONE!" Harry yelled, his voice sounding far
off.Hermione looked back to Severus his eyes narrowed as
he scrambled to his feet."Please, let me help you…" she said quickly,
her voice pleading."HERMIONE!" Harry called again.A crack of apparation made Hermione jump, Severus
was gone, the indented snow the only sign that he had ever been
there."Hermione." Harry's voice sounded raw and
injured."I'm here, Harry." she sprinted towards him.
His hands were shaking badly and his scar was bleeding."He's gone…it worked. Hermione he's gone."
said Harry throwing his arms around her."I know Harry," she said quietly, looking over
her shoulder to where Severus had been. "I know."AN: Happy New Year!I know these two chapters are short, but I will make
up for it with chapter three and so forth. Hope you all enjoy the
beginning of part two, and have a safe and happy New Year.





--------




3.
My hate for you is one to fear.Severus
sat in the library finishing off two sets of potion essays and
formulas. One in his own tight, hurried handwriting, so close
together it looked more like ink spots than words and one in a fluid
jagged scrawl that mimicked his dorm mates' script. He had
intentionally left out a few key details along with a handful of
misspelled words in the second set to avoid arousing suspicion,
though he knew it would still manage an acceptable for Rosier; a
better grade than he normally managed.The
Library was surprisingly empty for a Sunday. Severus was grateful for
the last of the sunshine that had drawn out the majority of the
students, leaving him to a quiet afternoon of solitude. He found that
if he could separate himself from people: from crowds and noise, he
could keep his growing anger and resentment in check. Otherwise, he
felt that at any moment he would lose control over his actions, and
would never be able to restrain himself again. He could still
remember the satisfaction he felt after hitting Black, the solid
sensation of his fist connecting with jaw, and bone. It felt
fantastic. It felt powerful.Severus
placed his work into his bag, stretching as he stood. He looked out
over the grounds and felt disgusted. Idiots, thought Severus as he
headed towards the dungeons intent on sleeping the rest of the day
away, indeed sleeping for as long as he possibly could, his whole
life perhaps.Severus
turned left at a portrait of a woman cooing to a sleeping baby taking
the shortcut to the Great Hall. If he were lucky, he would meet no-Severus
stopped and slid behind a pillar. A devastating jealousy formed
within him, as he watched Potter and Evans pawing at each other at
the end of the corridor.What
gave them the right to have this time with each other, he
thought.He could not stand watching them a moment longer, they would suffer.
They, like him would personally experience what if felt like to have
a treasured moment snatched from them. With an almost vigorous flick
of his wand he stood back to admire the chaos that unfolded before
him.Potter
snatched his head back from Lilly his face panicked and distorted."James?"
Lilly asked startled, watching as Potter's hands flew to his face,
his mouth opening and closing in strangled gurgles."What's
happened to your tongue?" she shouted, looking around frantically
for someone to help her.Let
him try prying his deceitful, vile tongue from the roof of his mouth,
thought Severus, especially pleased with the result of his spell. It
had worked better than he had hoped.Severus
turned away from them, heading back up the stairs, his previous angst
presently mollified. For once, he had jinxed Potter first."Impressive;
a variation of a sticking charm, I assume?" asked Bellatrix
stepping out from alcove.Severus
glanced at her sharply."It's
almost as clever as your charm that makes it impossible to hear
private conversations." She said her tone flat and bored.Severus
could feel his irritation start to rise. How dare she spy on him!"Though,
my personal favourite is your slicing hex, it has… potential."
this time her voice held a wavier of excitement the word "potential"
sliding out of her mouth almost lovingly.Severus
stepped pass her, "Excuse me." he said grinding the words out
from between his clenched, his hands tight fists in his robes.Bellatrix
stopped him, her hand hovering before his chest, not quite touching
him, "There are people who admire those sorts of abilities, Snape.
People who can help you; teach you how to make pathetic gits like
Potter and Black cower before you."Severus
raised an eyebrow doubtfully: challengingly. "Yes, and how
convenient for me that you, Black, know these people." his lips
spat the words at her with fierce mockery.A
flash of impatience flashed across Bella's face. "If you want to
waste this opportunity then so be it. I have no desire to coddle
you." They starred at each other."What
people?" Severus asked firmly.She
smirked, "People who respect knowledge and power; covet it. An
elite few who are hand picked to learn as much as they can about
magic, all magic.'Severus
eyed her sceptically."There
are few in this world that would go to great lengths to learn about
Dark Magic, they are weak. Perfectly content to waste their
abilities… waste their magic. Imbeciles like those berks are
beneath you, Snape."Severus
watched Bella closely, his eyes fixed on hers, subtly shifting
through her thoughts. He could sense her enthusiasm and surprisingly
how certain she was about what she was saying."Who
are these people?" he asked quietly.Bella
smirked, "You can meet them… They are all meeting at Lucius'
over the Holiday break.""Malfoy?"
he asked incredulously."He has the means to cater towards the certain individuals that are
involved. Think on it, Snape. If you are interested, accept Lucius'
invitation and see for yourself. Otherwise, decline. Either way
you've lost nothing." She nodded to him, heading down the hall."Not
that you have anything left to lose." Severus heard her
fleeting thought as she turned from him as clearly, as if she had
spoke it aloud.He
watched her until she disappeared around a corner, hundreds of
thoughts zipping around in his mind. How easy it sounded, so much in
fact, it seemed hardly true, and Malfoy of all people? He had not
been particularly brilliant in school from what Severus could
remember and though he was bright and even a fair duellist, he never
really seemed the type to thrive for knowledge. Oh, but to get Potter
and Black back, that at least would be worth the trip to Malfoy
Manor.An
empty pang simmered in his gut. She was right, he had nothing to
lose, anymore and everything gain.AN: Sorry this took
ages.. We've just moved into our new home and the had the internet
set up. The good news is the next chapter is almost done so you can
probably expect it by the end of the week. Thanks for sticking with
this.





--------




*
The Day The Whole World Went Away.34.Hermione
wondered how long she would stare at the tree line: if she would ever
be able to look at the forbidden forest without regret, and ache. She
turned back to Hogwart's grounds with heaviness in her gut. What
had they really changed? Was waiting for it to come to this end the
only way they could have won?She
and Harry had spent the last hour combing through the remains of
Hogwarts, spelling away the fires and melting snow rivers that
strayed through the bodies spread across the grounds. There was no
one left, and Hermione could scarcely think of a way Hogwarts would
ever feel like home again.Harry
was waiting for her at the top of the staircase that led into the
castle."I
found, Flitwick and Luna in the Ravenclaw tower with the first and
second years." said Harry with an air of bad news left unsaid."Is
everyone alright?" Hermione asked."No,
Flitwick warded off as many of the giants and trolls as he could, but
he's hurt fairly badly. A few of the children as well, and five of
them didn't make it."Hermione
nodded looking around the interior of the castle. Paintings and
tapestries were hanging askew, ripped and torn in long fleshy strips."Anyone
else?" she asked tears burning at the corner of her eyes."Not
yet." Harry answered. "I'm heading up to the south towers now
to check for anyone else, I haven't done the lower levels yet."There
were so many people Hermione wanted to ask Harry about, if he had
seen, or found anyone. So far, most everyone they loved, and knew had
died fighting to protect what they believed in."I'll
have a look," she said heading to the kitchens and lower
classrooms, leaving Harry to jog up the staircases alone.The
kitchens portrait was peeled from the wall, rolled down as if a
muggle tin opener had been used. Hermione stepped guardedly into the
entryway. Tables were upended, pots and pans thrown about the room,
some twisted and warped into little brass balls that resembled
crumbled parchment. There was whistling coming from a kettle over
boiling on a stove fire."Dobby?"
called Hermione. "Winky?""Dobby
is here, friend of Harry Potter." he called crawling out from under
a large table dragging a severe looking fire poker behind him."Are
you alright?" Hermione asked."We
is, Dobby and Winky stayed hidden when the Death Eaters came
through.""That's
very smart of you Dobby, and you too Winky." Who unlike Dobby, had
yet to look at Hermione and was whimpering pitifully into a dirty and
torn tea cosy."Is
Harry Potter won?" Ask Dobby."Yes,
Dobby, though there are not many people left to tell.""What
is we to do, friend of Harry Potter.""If
you could continue through the kitchens and help find any other elves
or students have them meet in the Great hall, please. I will continue
through the lower levels of the castle.""Yes
Dobby will find them." pulling Winky with him in a crack that
thudded through the tall kitchen ceilings.Hermione
turned left out of the kitchens pacing her way towards the Hufflepuff
common room. Before she could turn the corner toward the paintings
that covered the entrance, she could see the splintering of wood and
rubbish across the stone corridor.Rushing
forward, she knew there would not be a pleasant outcome. A giant
surely had caused this, for where the door would have been, was a
gaping wound of split and creaking wood shards. Stone and dust like
the soiled snow outside, and no one left inside.She
would collapse with the weight of their failure. This was no won war,
no victory.Hermione
stumbled from the remains of Hufflepuff common room, blindly carrying
her body to the Potions classroom and Slytherin dorms. She knew
without looking that no one had bothered to venture through here. No
need as most of the Slytherin students had faced her on the frozen
grounds earlier, or later depending on how her mind tried to wrap
around her missing time. The entrance to the common room looked
perfectly unharmed as if nothing was amiss and the whole castle not
destroyed above it. Hermione moved past the stone entry into
Professor Slughorn's classroom. Here too, nothing was touched, in
fact, students' course work was still sprawled across their
workstations and a potion was brewing on the Professors desk. It was
eerie and unnatural to see a classroom so busy with work without a
student in sight, most of them lying lifeless above her. Hermione
pushed on into the potions storeroom and Slughorn's office,
everything still and flat against its surface. Set on finding someone
living and moving she hurried out of the doorway and into the hall,
her eye catching on light splintering out from a doorway. Tentatively
she pushed into its frame letting it swing open. A candle was burning
on a side table in what was obviously living quarters for a teacher.
Had Slughorn hurried so quickly to the grounds he had left his door
un-warded and a candle burning? Hermione glanced around the room; it
had none of Slughorn's flamboyance and untidiness she had come to
know from his Slug Club meetings. No pictures of well to do wizards,
or trinkets and trifling curios; this room seemed spare and
uninviting, nothing but books and essentials. No pictures or personal
touches. Hermione walked further into the room vigilant and alert.
She pushed open another interior door and her breath knocked from her
lungs. It was Severus' room. She was sure, for the gift she had yet
to give him, the gift that sat heavy and hard in her pocket rested
simply next to his bed.She
would return to him; it was the only way he could have had this and
this time she would tell him everything.*A/N:
First an apology, Im so sorry to everyone who is still reading this…
I was so bummed at the end of the series that I couldn't even read
fan fiction let alone write it. No excuse I know. Hopefully, the few
of you that want to see this finished won't mind hanging in a bit
longer as I promise I will finish it as long as there are those who
wish to read it. Secondly, as you can tell there are spelling and
grammar errors. If some lucky reader wants to read the chapters
before everyone else in exchange for editing work have at it. Lastly,
this is A/U and non-compliant to the wonderful books we all love.

