
Going MuggleAN: This story begins after the Battle of Hogwarts. It is NON Epilogue Compliant. It will be about friendships. It will have some romance, some non-canon relationships. This idea came to me while I was on vacation. It is different from my other stories. Chapters are being worked on, the ending is NOT written in stone yet.May 3, 1998Day after the Battle of HogwartsBoys Dorm, Gryffindor TowerHarry Potter woke up and slowly rubbed his eyes. However he immediately regretted his actions as every muscle in his body seemed to groan in pain. Despite sleeping soundly in a warm bed with no fears of Death Eaters or of Riddle, and with no intruding thoughts or images from the truly defeated Dark Lord, his body was sore and exhausted. He rolled slowly onto his back and stared at the top of his bed for a few minutes as he considered what he had accomplished. He had actually done what he had thought he might never do. He had defeated the Dark Lord, he had survived, and the prophecy would no longer control his life. For the first time ever he finally felt free. He let out a long deep breath and enjoyed the sensation of the release of pent up tension.As he laid in his bed contemplating his new found freedom he considered what else this would mean. Before he managed to get to bed last night he knew that the ministry had already hailed him as a hero, and that the Daily Prophet was planning to run a story, probably on today's front page, hailing him as "The Boy-Who-Conquered" or some other such tripe.Harry wasn't sure he was ready to deal with a new round of attention. Slowly he pulled himself up and out of his bed. He managed to trudge to the bathroom and into the showers. He felt refreshed and more awake once he had managed to finish bathing and dressed himself in some fresh clothes. By the time he had managed to get himself ready Ron and the others in his dorm were also ready to join him for breakfast down in the Great Hall.The house elves had already cleaned up the Great Hall and prepared breakfast for those who were staying at the school. Families who were still at the castle had been given rooms to stay in, the elves had converted old class rooms into dormitory style rooms. Several families would be leaving to make arrangements for loved ones who were killed during the battle, others were heading to St. Mungo's with family members who were injured and were receiving care at the hospital there as the infirmary here at the castle was clearly overwhelmed with the number of injured from the battle.By the time Harry and his dorm mates arrived at the Great Hall many people had already arrived. When Harry walked in, everyone stopped eating. Initially they all just stared at him in silence, and then they started to applaud, and then Harry was receiving a standing ovation from then entire hall.Harry started to feel a little embarrassed at the continued attention, but he managed to smile and wave slightly at the crowd as he followed Ron and the others to a table as they sat down to enjoy their breakfast.Soon they were beginning to enjoy their food. Soon they were joined by Hermione and Ginny as well. Neville was sitting next to Harry on his right while Ron was on his left and the girls were sitting across from him. Luna joined them at their table as well."So, the ministry is calling you a hero now," commented Luna as she sat down."That's what I hear," said Harry as he was about to eat his breakfast."Well, all of the Death Eaters and the Purebloods are probably mad at him," added Ron, "probably all want revenge for what he did, taking out You-Know-Who and messing up their plans for society and all that."Harry rolled his eyes at that comment. "Can't I ever get any rest from this?""You can do anything you want, Harry," said Hermione, trying to encourage him. "You always wanted to be an Auror."Harry let out a long sigh at Hermione's words. "I think that I've had enough of chasing after the bad guys, or having the bad guys chase after me. I think that I've earned the right to rest for a while.""But what about your N.E.W.T.s? You still need to take them to get a job," added a worried Hermione. "What are you going to live on?""I don't know, but I am of age," replied Harry, feeling tired with this conversation. "I may have inherited a bit more than just a trust vault after all.""You're really going to back to Gringotts?" asked Ron incredulously."Don't see that I have much of a choice in the long run," said Harry, resigning himself to the inevitable confrontation he would have with the goblins.Ron muttered under his breath, "That can't possibly end well."Neville who had been sitting with them and listening in wondered what they were taking about returning to Gringotts. He decided he would just have to ask Harry about it later, perhaps when he returned the Sword of Gryffindor to him.~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Abbot HouseholdSusan Bones and Hannah Abbot had decided not stay at Hogwarts once the battle was over. With the trauma of their entire seventh year due to the abuse from the Carrows they were eager to return to the safety of Hannah's home. Susan had been spending all of her time out of school with the Abbots since the Death Eaters and Voldemort had murdered her Aunt Amelia during the war, leaving Susan as the sole remaining member of the Bones family. Officially she was now Lady Bones as she was legally of age, but with the war having only just ended she couldn't care less about her titles or the wealth which she had inherited from her family.She was lying in her bed in the room she shared with Hannah, who had been her best friend for as long as she could remember. Susan could not even remember her parents, having been orphaned during the first war and raised by her Aunt Amelia. Tears felled her eyes as she thought about her aunt, the stern head of the DMLE who had been brought down by Voldemort during his return to prominence during the second war. "Bloody hell," she thought, "why didn't any of us listen to Harry during all those years? He never did lie to us, ever. He was right all along. He stopped Voldemort as an infant, he faced him multiple times while we were in school, but we always seemed to turn our backs on that poor boy."Susan cried quietly in her bed as she thought about everything that happened to her, and to Harry, whom she barely knew. She even thought about how much they had in common. They both were orphaned during the war. She heard stories about how his godfather, Sirius Black, had escaped from Azkaban, but that he was really innocent, but then he died at the end of their fifth year, not long before her own Aunt Amelia was killed. All of this could be traced back to a corrupt ministry, and corrupt purebloods.Susan was lying there and she came to a conclusion. She decided she didn't want anything to do with a corrupt magical society. Or at least she didn't want anything to do with this magical society for a while. She had enjoyed living with the Abbots, it was a comfortable home for her, but she needed to do something to get her mind off of everything that was reminding her of her Aunt, of the people that failed her parents, that failed her Aunt, that failed Harry Potter. She knew she had plenty of money, plenty of gold in her family's vaults. She made up her mind that she would move out on her own, find a place to stay, away from magical society, at least for a while."Now I just have to tell Hannah what I'm going to do," she thought to herself.~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~May 4, 1998Great Hall, HogwartsIn the aftermath of the Battle of Hogwarts, the wizarding world was slowing trying to pull themselves back together. Some students had already left school to return home. Muggleborns had come out of hiding. The interim Minister for Magic had already disbanded the Muggleborn Registration Committee, and Dolores Umbridge was already in a holding cell at the DMLE.Some families had come together at Hogwarts, or at least at the remains of the village of Hogsmeade as there was plenty of work to be done for the rebuilding of both the school and the town. The DMLE itself was busy with trying to round up any of the surviving Death Eaters and any ministry employees who were linked to Voldemort's regime that had been in place during what was now being referred to by some as the Dark Captivity of the Ministry.The house elves that had survived the battle however were ecstatic. They were busy. They had never been so busy before. They had meals to prepare for students and for families. They had so much clean up to do. They were even helping with rebuilding the castle walls. The goblins were set to arrive shortly to assist with the major reconstruction that the castle would require as well, but for now the Hogwarts house elves were just happily keeping busy doing everything they needed to do, and there was clearly plenty to do.At one of the long tables in the Great Hall sat a group of students who were slowly eating their breakfast. The food was wonderful as usual, the war was over, but still they had little to be cheerful about, as they had lost so many friends and loved ones. Ron Weasley may have lost a brother and some friends, but he had still not lost his appetite. His girlfriend shook her head in disgust as she looked on and just moved her food around on her plate. She then looked over at the young man sitting next to him, the young man with the dark and unruly hair, and the scar on his forehead that actually seemed a little less red this morning. This young man, this Harry Potter, he too was just pushing the food around on his plate."Harry, you need to eat something," she chided.Harry looked at her and her plate. "You're one to talk Hermione," he replied in a monotone.Ginny Weasley sat next to Hermione and looked between the two os them. She was trying to think of something to say to both of them, but she couldn't find the words. She had tried talking to Harry yesterday but he seemed so distant. She had tried to get close to him, hoping that now that the war was over that their relationship would pick up right where it left off when Harry left last summer. She had been dreaming that her hero would return, and he had, and he had defeated the villain. She complained to Hermione about her frustration last night and Hermione had given her an earful. At first Ginny had wondered if Hermione was just trying to steal Harry away from her, but then Hermione made it clear that she and Ron were still together. Hermione had explained to Ginny that from Harry's perspective Ginny was a fan-girl, Ron's little sister, and the young girl that he saved all of those years ago from the chamber of secrets. Harry had been through a lot over the past year, and Harry may not be ready for a relationship, at least not a relationship with Ginny. Ginny was angry at first with Hermione and she snapped back at her, asked her how she could possibly know that. Hermione calmly explained that while they were on the run for months from the Death Eaters, trying to find the hidden items, they had many nights they were up talking, and eventually the topic of Ginny came up. Hermione was eventually in tears as she told Ginny what she had learned from Harry. "I probably shouldn't be the one to tell you this, but you know how shy Harry can be around girls, but I really don't think it's going to work out between you two. You're a good friend, and Harry is my best friend. I don't want to see either of you get hurt." Those words still echoed in Ginny's mind from the night before, but it still hurt to feel so distant from the young man she had been building up in her mind for so long as the man she thought she was destined to be with for all time. She tried to calm herself by thinking that there must be dozens of girls who thought the same thing — that they were destined to be with the 'boy-who-lived' — but she at least got to know Harry by going to school with him and by Harry coming by her home so often. And that's when she thought about it more clearly. Harry was there so often because he was Ron's best mate, and she was there because she was Ron's little sister. And she started to accept that she probably would never be much more than the little sister to the best mate of the Boy-Who-Lived. "Get over him and move on with your life," she told herself.As she was thinking those thoughts she noticed someone walk up to their table."Potter, can I have a word with you?" spoke a voice in a tone that was more pleasant than the group of friends had ever recalled.Ron stopped eating long enough to turn around and snap at the intruder, "Get lost Malfoy, Harry doesn't want to talk with you!""Ronald," snapped Hermione, "there is no need to be rude!"Harry looked up at the blonde young man, "What can I do for you Draco?""I'd rather talk to you alone, this is personal, it has to do with something that happened the other day," stated Draco."You can talk in front of all of us," Ron answered for Harry.Hermione kicked Ron under the table."Oi!" called out Ron as he winced in pain."I'm listening right here," answered Harry, clearly not making any effort to move."It has to do with something that happened in the forest," commented Draco, "and I would prefer to speak to you about it in private."Harry raised an eyebrow, starting to realise what he may be referring to. Harry stood up as he answered, "I think I understand a little better."Ron began to protest, "You can't just go with him, he's a snake!"Harry turned back to Ron, "The war's over Ron. Malfoy knows I defeated Riddle, he knows the Death Eaters are defeated. Despite what you might think, Draco is not stupid, and based on what he said, I have every reason to trust him tight now.""What's this about the forest, Harry?" asked Hermione."That's between Draco and me," replied Harry as he followed Draco out of the Great Hall.~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Slytherin Girls Dorms"Shouldn't we be heading to the Great Hall for breakfast?" asked Tracey Davis.Daphne Greengrass was sitting in her bed, and Tracey's question distracted her from her musings for the past half hour. The heiress t the Greengrass Imports had been contemplating her life after Hogwarts, and she was afraid that her father may start to pressure her into an arranged marriage soon. She knew someone would have to take over the family business and there were no male heirs. One thought that was at least somewhat comforting was that there were no Death Eaters in the family, but with all of the recent infighting within the magical world, particularly with the perspective she had gained from her years in Slytherin she felt she had seen too much, she had had her fill of the pettiness and the manipulativeness that marred their world.Daphne was roused from her contemplation as Tracey called her name once again, "Sure, I'll be right with you."As they made their way towards breakfast, Daphne finally spoke up. "Tracey, what are your plans now, what with the war finally being over."Tracey sighed briefly. "Don't know, I was hoping maybe I could settle down, maybe Blaise is interested in settling down too."Daphne stopped and stared at her best friend. "But you're not even dating Blaise, the two of you have never been together.""No time like the present to try and start," she replied with a big grin."Daphne just shook her head as she was amazed with her best friends attitude. Soon they were in the Great Hall which was fairly full, considering the events of the previous days. They each started to serve themselves food.Daphne commented off hand, "At least the house elves are still here and are able to make us something to eat." She then looked around and noticed that there were very few people left at the Slytherin table. Many of their house mates had left during or immediately after the war. Then she turned to Tracey as she mused out loud, "I wonder what Pansy is up to now, considering she left right around the time the battle was about to start, when she was all but demanding that Potter be handed over to the Dark Lord."Tracey spoke quietly so as not to be overheard by any of the younger students who were still present at the school and were seated at their table. "Apparently she is at her family's home, all depressed. Draco is clearly not worthwhile, especially with what happened during the battle. Or at least the rumours I have heard is that his family is in disgrace with the rest of the surviving Death Eaters, but that may not really matter to anyone anymore. But some people think that the new ministry may go easy on any surviving Death Eaters to help bring about peace.""Like that will ever happen," added Daphne, "not with how the Carrows and Snape treated everyone but those in Slytherin over the past year. Not to mention the Muggle Born Registration committee.""But they want peace," explained Tracey, "they have always wanted peace, give everyone a second chance and all that."Daphne scoffed at those words. "That was Dumbledore, and he was taken out by Death Eaters over a year ago. And Draco was involved with that, as was Snape. And Snape is dead. No, they won't be let of lightly, I'm fairly sure of that.""Well, then what are you going to be doing?" asked Tracey."I'm not sure," said Daphne as she nibbled on a roll and scanned the room to see who was still present, "but what I do know is that this whole magical society is sure messed up."Tracey gave her a simple look that silently asked 'what do you mean.'Daphne shook her head for a moment, then she answered her friend. "Just take a look at our new hero for starters.""I can't," interrupted Tracey, "I don't see him anywhere."Daphne glared at her, then she continued. "He was hailed as a hero when we were all just a year old, and yet no one knows exactly what happened. The Dark Lord was defeated, his parents were killed, he survived the killing curse, and ended up with that famous scar. Then he is hidden away for ten years. He shows up here and is more clueless than either Weasley or Longbottom. But then he starts having all of those grand adventures, almost as if those horrid story books were coming true."Tracey was incredulous. "You mean you believe those stories from our first year?"Daphne rolled her eyes at her friend, "The headmaster never denied them. And neither did Granger when I overheard someone ask her about it. We all knew about the troll incident on Halloween. Then, at the end of the year, they get all of this mysterious house points, and the garlic smelling, turban clad stutterer who also incompetent vanishes from school. Yes, I do believe that he was possessed by the Dark Lord and that Potter defeated him. That makes the score 2-0 for Potter. Even if he did spend the week in the infirmary afterwards.""But what about second year," protested Tracey, "he wasn't the Heir of Slytherin like people suggested."Daphne smiled at this as she had a ready reply. "No, but he did find out who was, and with the help of Granger again, he figured out everything that was going on. He discovered who, or what, was paralysing the students. He was always there for her. Now why the hell those two were never a couple, I'll never understand. It's like some grand mystery or some power somewhere just never wanted them to be together, but whatever. The rumour with the most credence about our second year is that there was a basilisk on the loose."Tracey had heard that rumour too. "Then what happened to it? And why didn't you tell me about this before?""Because," Daphne added with a slight sting in her voice, "you're about as bad of a gossip queen as Lavender Brown. As far as the basilisk goes, either Potter killed it, which I would find highly unlikely, as he doesn't seem to be that powerful, but then again, he did just defeat the Dark Lord. Or he found a way to control it, which, considering were talking about a basilisk, most likely is a former pet of Salazar Slytherin himself, which would make controlling it very unlikely as week, so he must have had some help with this either way, most likely from the headmaster."Tracey considered her friend's summary of their first two years in school and then she asked about the next year. "So then, what about our third year?""Well, that year was fairly uneventful, other than his being hunted down by the escaped Sirius Black," Daphne began in her recap of their school history. "Black did manage to get on to the school property at the end of the year. He was even captured. Somehow, though, Potter was involved and was attacked by all of those dementors that Fudge demanded be posted as a means of protecting us, or specifically Potter from the crazed mass murdered. Remember how the dementors went after him during that Quidditch match? Apparently at one point Potter drove off over one hundred or more at once.""But that would be impossible," stated Tracey.Daphne shook her head. "A: we're talking about Potter here. B: we're talking about creatures that the ministry clearly can't control and have been shown on multiple occasions to enjoy attacking Potter."Tracey rubbed her forehead as she tried to understand what Daphne had told her. "Over one hundred?"Daphne nodded, "That is the current report based on several fairly reliable sources. Then that brings us to the Tri-Wizard Tournament.""And his desire for extra glory," added Tracey."When did you start sharing Draco's morning pumpkin juice, girlfriend?" asked an amazed Daphne. "You actually still believe that foolishness that was spread by Draco and others? Who has more fame and glory than Potter as it stands? Only Dumbledore, and after yesterday, I would say that even he doesn't anymore. When have you ever seen Potter truly try and draw attention to himself? Never. Snape or Draco baiting him doesn't count. Snape, or Draco, or even Weasley claiming he was doing so doesn't count either."Tracey considered her friends words for a few moments and the turned and stared at her. "You know, this is starting to sound like you've been staling him for years!"Daphne glared at her best friend. "I just simply pay attention to all of the people around us, especially those who stick out. Potter always manages to stick out. And with being three years behind the other students in the tournament, he still managed to actually win the tournament. That set of thing ought to catch anyone's attention.""But what about Diggory?" asked Tracey."The boy who was killed? What about him? Potter told everyone, he was killed," answered Daphne."But the reports in the Daily Prophet were that Potter was lying," stated Tracey."And those reports have all been proved wrong," countered Daphne, "as He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named clearly did come back, and did attack Harry, so that's at least 3-0 in favour of your young hero." Daphne couldn't hold back a slight chuckle at that. "And now he was just defeated by Harry yesterday, and from what we have heard the Dark Lord is truly gone now and can never come back, which puts the tally at 4-0 in favour of Potter."Tracey just shook her head in frustration as Daphne continued to quote the score as though it were a game. "Besides, if Potter had lied about what had happened," Daphne continued, " the Ministry of Magic could have easily proved that he spoke lies, but they could not.""Fine," replied a frustrated Tracey. "But then what about fifth year?""Potter tutored most of the school," she said, "other than Slytherin house. He survived attacks from Umbridge. I think the whole reason why she created the Inquisitorial Squad was just to try and catch Potter and disgrace him. He was her only real target.""How the bloody hell do you know all of this?" wondered Tracey."I pay attention to everything going on," answered Daphne with a smile. "I may never have liked Draco, but I paid attention to what he said. I read between the lines of what the Daily Prophet published. I listened to what Professor Snape would tell us, yes the man was clearly biased against Potter. It took a while to sift through everything that came across, but there was information there to be gleaned. Also, I got to know Granger in some of my classes. Even listening to Weasley spout off against Malfoy could give you clues about the truth that was out there.""A true Slytherin," replied Tracey with a grin.Daphne simply smiled as she considered that she also had other sources that she was not about to reveal to Tracey. The family business of imports and exports allowed her father to overhear a lot of information, and required him to be very skilled in certain techniques which his daughter had to learn as well.~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Entrance to HogwartsOutside of the Great Hall Draco suggested they find an empty classroom where they could talk in private. Harry scoffed at the idea. "That's not going to be easy," commented Harry, "as there aren't many rooms left after the battle."Draco shrugged his shoulders. Then they headed outside to the grounds and Draco cast a muffliato charm around them so that no one would overhear their conversation."My mother saved your life," he stated simply.Harry looked at Draco. "So, you're saying that I owe you or her a life debt?"Draco shook his head. "No, nothing so drastic, but I am requesting a favour."Harry raised an eyebrow. "I'm listening."Draco shifted uneasily as he searched for the right way to explain what he was trying to say. "My family's name is clearly not what it once was. The ministry is still against us because of my father's actions." He paused as he gathered his thoughts some more. "The Death eaters, my father's former associates and co-conspirators will be out for revenge against my entire family. They will want to make an example of us, so I figure the safest place foe me is the last place they would look for me."Harry nods in agreement, understanding a little of what Draco is saying. "It won't be easy for you.""And why not?" asked Draco defensively."You won't fit in among muggles," Harry stated simply.Draco scoffed, "How hard could it be?""For you? It would be very hard," Harry stated emphatically. "We would have to change your name. Come up with a plausible back story for who you are, where you came from. You would need to get a job."Draco's face became more pale than usual. "I'd have to work?""Get over yourself Malfoy," laughed Harry. "Yes, you would have to work. Then we'd also have to get you a muggle ID so you could even get a job in the first place. We'd have to find a place to live and all that." Harry thought for a moment and then he continued. "Before you even can get a job, as I said before, you would have to learn how to fit in to muggle society.""I can do all that," sneered Draco, "how hard can it be?""For many wizards," answered Harry, "it is near impossible.""I'm not your average wizard," stated Draco."Of course not," agreed Harry. "Or else I wouldn't have agreed so quickly to this."Draco paused for a moment. "Wait a second Potter, you did seem to agree to this too quickly, too easily. Why?"Harry grinned slightly. "I have my own reasons. Meet me here, tomorrow, say about 3 in the afternoon, we'll speak more."Harry started to walk away, when Draco called him back. "How do you know you can trust me?"Harry turned back and laughed. "It's quite simple, Malfoy, you need me for this more than I need you. You asked me to do you a favour. This is one huge favour. As I recall, about eight years ago you offered me your hand in friendship, stating I needed to make the right sort of friends, and that you could help me there. Maybe this is the day I finally take you up on that. But perhaps it is you who have finally learned that you need help in making the right sort of friends. If is true that the remaining Death Eaters are coming after you, you do need my help. I can help you there. Hiding out in muggle London. You won't stand a chance. Most wizards wouldn't, particularly not Death Eaters. I have my own reasons for choosing to go live amongst the muggles, so this may prove to be mutually advantageous. So, it may just be the Slytherin thing to do, for me to help you, not the Gryffindor thing."Draco stared at Harry in surprise at his answer."Oh, and Malfoy," added Harry, "in case you didn't already know this, the sorting hat wanted to place me in Slytherin. But as I had already met you a couple of times, and I was determined not to be placed in the same house as you as you had come across as a grade A git, I told the hat to put me somewhere else."Draco's jaw dropped. "I had no idea that you could tell the hat what house to place you in.""You should have known," commented Harry, "why else did you think the hat placed you in Slytherin so quickly?"~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Abbot HouseholdSusan sat with Hannah at a table in the garden out back."Please explain to me again why you're doing this," stated Hannah."I just need some time away from the magical world," repeated Susan. "So much has happened, and not much of it has been good."Hannah frowned, "But why go live among the muggles? Can't you just stay here? We don't have to hang out with others. We can avoid Diagon Alley and Hogsmeade and all of that." Hannah then gasped as she came to a realisation. "You don't want to be around me anymore, is that it?"Susan put her hand to her mouth as she realised her best friend got the completely wrong message. "That's not it at all! You're my best friend in the whole world! I just need some time away from everything. I've lost my parents, my Aunt, and the ministry never did much to try and protect us. In fact, the one person who actually ended the war, the ministry tried to paint as a crazy git, and we even believed the lies the Daily Prophet printed about him. We even wore those stupid buttons during fourth year."Hannah blushed, "I did, as I recall, you refused to wear them."Susan smiled at her friend and held her hand, "I didn't want to point that out. But our whole class kind of turned our back on Potter time and again."Hannah looked down at her feet, "I even accused him of some awful things in second year.""But he still welcomed us into the DA during fifth year," added Susan.Hannah looked up, "It's pretty amazing that he put up with us, considering the way everyone continued to treat him."Susan turned and looked off in the distance. "I wonder what Harry's going to be doing now."Hannah looked at her friend and worried what would become of her when she went to live among the muggles.





--------




AN: This chapter gets away from the multiple perspective and starts to deal with things mainly from Harry's perspective. The first chapter was mainly to introduce the characters who were looking to head to the muggle world for various reasons. Obviously, they will be turning up, eventually. Thanks for the reviews. Obviously, guest reviews cannot be addressed (I will often reply to reviews via PMs). As always, thanks for reading and reviewing. As an aside, Lord Emperor-Dark Hunter is being edited/revised with help. So far 4 chapters have been updated. I am working on chapters 5 - 12 already. Lack of continuity and grammar issues are being addressed in those updates. Now, back to Going Muggle...May 5, 1998Harry woke up as the sun was shining through the window into his old dorm room. After he showered and returned to get dressed before heading down to breakfast, he noted that Ron was already gone. Harry then asked Neville if he knew where Ron was."I think that the Weasleys have all headed back to the Burrow early this morning to prepare for Fred's funeral." Neville hesitated before saying anything else. "I thought that they would have invited you over for that.""I think the family is there by themselves," commented Harry, "but I heard that the funeral isn't until tomorrow."Neville nodded in understanding.Harry then looked at Neville and gave him a slight grin. "I don't think I ever thanked you enough for what you did."Neville felt confused."With the sword, and killing the snake," explained Harry. "I never would have been able to finish off Voldemort if you hadn't have killed that snake. That was the bravest thing I ever saw you do. I know I heard all about how you and Ginny kept everyone safe in the Room of Requirement, but you really proved you were a true Gryffindor with taking out Nagini. And I know I told you all about how we needed to kill that snake, but I just wanted you to hear it from me, how important that was."Neville was amazed to be hearing the great Harry Potter thank him so profoundly for what he had done. "Well, my gran had always been telling me, 'that's what we do', Longbottoms that is. 'We stand by Potters', stick with them. We have for hundreds of years. She was so mad at me when she heard I tried to stand up to you at the end of our first year, she thought I might have broken our family alliance."Harry could tell that Neville was really worried about this."Hey, it's all right, Nev. You did what you thought was right. Honestly, I was proud of you for doing that, I was never mad at you for trying to stop us that night. Besides, it was Hermione who put the leg bind curse on you," Harry added with a laugh.After the two of them laughed about the idea of their rule abiding friend casting the leg binding curse on him so that they could break the rules, Harry became more serious. "Neville, I need to ask you something very important. We're both of age now, what does that mean for us, with me being the last Potter, and your parents being in St. Mungo's, in their condition."Neville's expression became one of shock. "Wait, you don't know? Has no one ever told you any of this?"Harry shook his head as he sat back down on his bed. "I was raised by my magic hating relatives. Dumbledore kept me in the dark about almost everything. Hell, he even had Hagrid take me to Diagon Alley to get my wand whereas most muggleborns at least had McGonagall take them and explain a lot more about magic and everything to them."Neville almost collapsed back onto his bed. "I'm Lord Longbottom, or will be shortly. There is some business I need to take care of at Gringotts to make sure it is all straightened out. It was kind of difficult to do that last year with the way things were going with the ministry. You must be Lord Potter, maybe even Lord Black if your godfather left you the title."Harry's eyes seemed to grow bigger. "So, I'd have to go see the goblins then?" He seemed a little apprehensive at this thought.Neville noted Harry's uneasiness. "Is that going to be a problem?"Harry looked back at Neville, "You could say that. The last time I saw them, a few days ago, I did somethings that may have never been done before."Neville just stared at Harry, waiting for more of an explanation."Well, it wasn't just me," Harry tried to clarify, "it was Hermione and Ron with me.""Go on," encouraged Neville."You can't tell anyone about this," insisted Harry.Neville shook his head, "Of course not, we're like family, with the alliance.""Good," said Harry, just accepting Neville's word. "You see, to take care of things to defeat Voldemort, I needed to get a couple of items. One of them was something I found here in the school, the Ravenclaw Diadem. But just before we showed up here, well, the three of us, we went to Gringotts.""So, you went to the bank," said Neville, unsure of why this would be an issue."We needed to get something," explained Harry, "from Bellatrix Lestrange's vault, without her knowing about it."Neville's face went white. "How could you have done that?"Harry laughed uncomfortably as he recalled the memory of what they had done. "Quite the crazy plan, is what it was. Something that involved polyjuice potion, a little help from a goblin, a lot of luck, and the use of an unforgivable," added Harry."You killed somebody!" exclaimed Neville."No, no, no," corrected Harry, "we were almost found out so I had to use the imperius curse, on a goblin. But it was for a very important reason."Neville narrowed his eyes at Harry."Would it help if I told you I felt bad about having to do it?"Neville was still glaring at Harry. Finally he relaxed and asked Harry to tell him more."We finally made it down to her vault, and we actually managed to get in. You see, I had managed to disarm her when we escaped from Malfoy Manor. By the time we recovered the item we needed, we had set off a curse which nearly trapped us in the vault. Besides, we had also tripped several alarms which alerted the goblins to what we were doing, or trying to do at any rate. Eventually we escaped, which we did by freeing a dragon that they used as a guard for the lowest level, highest security vaults."Neville was now in complete awe as he listened to the story. After a few minutes his excited smile turned to a frown. "Harry, you've got a major problem.""And what would that be?""If the goblins know it was you who broke in, stole an item from a high security vault, and then escaped by stealing one of their dragons, they won't be exactly pleased to be doing any business with you whatsoever," he explained with a sigh."That's where you come in, my friend," commented Harry with a mischievous smile.Neville began to look very worried."I'll need you to come with me when I go see the goblins today," stated Harry, and Neville understood that Harry wasn't asking.Harry could see the obvious worry on his friend's face. "You'll be fine, Nev, you'll be there as my friend, and as a witness to my testimony before them. You won't be in any trouble. Besides, they'll know that you had nothing to do with what happened. I'll also be taking the blame for what Hermione and Ron did, if they'll let me."Neville was still a little uneasy with this idea, but his new found Gryffindor courage from the past year had won out as he replied to Harry, "Of course I'll do it, for you Harry, a Longbottom will always be there for a Potter!""Brilliant," replied Harry with a large grin, "I knew I could count on you! So, we'll just pop on over there and I'll get this whole mess sorted out with the goblins and then I can find out what I have in my family's vaults!"Neville smiled in return. "Right, sounds like a plan, as long as they don't end up throwing you into one of their mines to work off any penalties."Harry considered Neville's words for a moment and then he stood up as he said, "We should be fine, so we might as well get an early start on the day and make our way over there to the bank."As Harry started to walk away, Neville called after him. "Umm, Harry, aren't you forgetting something?""What's that?" asked a confused Harry."Trousers?" Replied Neville with a slight grin.~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Gringotts Bank, LondonA slightly nervous Harry Potter walked into the lobby, accompanied by an equally nervous Neville Longbottom. As soon as Harry stepped foot into the lobby the two were immediately surrounded by several goblin guards."I don't think they're very happy to see you, Harry," whispered Neville who tried not to let his nervousness show too much.Harry smiled thinly as he looked at the goblins who had quickly gathered around them. "Good morning, friends, I think I need to speak with someone who is kind of in charge."Harry's comment was met with silent stares. Silent but angry stares to be more precise. Harry turned to look at Neville for suggestions but Neville simply responded with a shrug of his shoulders. After a minute a well dressed goblin walked out from the back, flanked by two goblins in full armour carrying halberds."That can't be good," commented Neville under his breath."On the contrary," replied Harry, "this is more like the reception I was hoping for."Neville turned slightly to look at Harry and raised an eyebrow, and he whispered, "Are you out of your mind!""Not at all," smiled Harry, "this guy looks important, I can get somewhere with this one. Hopefully clear up the little misunderstanding from a few days ago.""That's all you think that will be to them, just a little misunderstanding?" Neville shook his head in amazement as he wondered why it was that he actually agreed to come to Gringotts with Harry for this.The goblin stopped in front of Harry. He surveyed the two humans in front of him slowly, first Harry Potter and then his companion. The goblin then turned and spoke in gobbledygook to the two guards who were with him. They both laughed a deep hearty laugh for a full minute before one of them turned and walked away. Then the clear leader turned and spoke to Harry, "I must apologise for that little display their, but I had to explain to the guard that I sent away. They did not understand the words which you just used. Apparently a wizard breaking into our bank, stealing a valuable object and making their escape on a stolen dragon was not something that I would have ever surmised as being 'a little misunderstanding.' That was the first time I have ever heard a wizard make an attempt at goblin humour in all my years here. He went to share the news with the rest of the guards. They will be joining us shortly," the goblin added with a feral grin.Neville gulped at the sound of that. First they were surrounded by a small gathering of what he assumed were guards, then this goblin came forward with two heavily armed guards, and one was sent to get more guards, and Neville could only assume that meant ones armed with the large halberds. He wasn't sure that he liked the idea of goblin humour bringing more such guards to their location.Harry spoke up for Neville as he noticed that his friend was clearly getting more uncomfortable with the situation. "My friend, Lord Longbottom, was here to take care of some of his own business, and to offer some corroborating testimony on my behalf in regard to the actions that took place the other day."The goblin standing directly in front of Harry looked between the two wizards in front of him. "So, Mr. Potter, you return here and freely admit to your actions?"Harry realised that he had to be careful with what he said next. "I came here today to make it clear that I am taking responsibility for my actions and to discuss with the leaders of this fine institution that there were mitigating circumstances that I felt forced my hand in to carrying out what would normally be considered improper behaviour. Perhaps this would not be the best place to discuss the details of what was done, or why, as the specifics are of a most sensitive nature."The goblin leader eyed Harry closely. "You are a most unusual wizard Mr. Potter. Such candour, and even respectfulness." He turned around and dismissed the group of what was now twenty guards that had assembled. Turning back to Harry and Neville he bade them to follow him to his office. "Of course, you do understand, that the battalion of guards will be at my beck call with even the slightest provocation.""Understood, sir," replied Harry.The goblin stopped and looked at the two wizards. "Perhaps I should introduce myself. You may call me Ragnok." He then turned and began to lead the way down a myriad of corridors towards his office.Neville turned to Harry as he whispered. "Do you realise who this is? He's the goblin chief, the director of Gringotts. There is no one more powerful in the bank, in the entire goblin nation here in England than Ragnok."Harry smiled as he looked at Neville, "That's a good thing, isn't it?"Neville frowned, "You don't understand Harry. Ragnok never meets with wizards.""What do mean never? He's meeting with us now," commented Harry.Before Neville could reply they had arrived at Ragnok's office and the goblin showed them to seats across from his desk. Once they had sat down and he and situated himself behind his large granite desk he looked at Harry and he answered the question that Neville had not been able to reply to. Two of the guards were already in the office, standing behind Ragnok, on either side, so that each one was facing either Harry or Neville."Mr. Potter, I have not had a witch or wizard in this office since I negotiated the sale of Azkaban Island to the Ministry of Magic in 1832 from the previous owner, so I would say that Lord Longbottom's claim that I never meet with wizards is a bit of an exaggeration." Then the director turned to Harry. "Now that I have your undivided attention, in regard to the events of May 1, 1998, according to your calendar, there are some issues that we have here about your behaviour on that day."Harry took a deep breath as he prepared to hear what the director had to say. Neville gripped the arms of his chair in anticipation of what Ragnok was about to read as the goblin picked up a large parchment.Ragnok cleared his throat and read the parchment that was now in his hand."The Goblin Nation makes the following charges against Harry James Potter:wilfully"That on the morning of May 1, 1998, you did wilfully and knowingly violate goblin law and Gringotts Banking policies in the following manner:Use of charms and false identification to illegally access a vault (penalty: 3,000,000 galleons)Use of charms on a teller to illegally access a vault (penalty: 5,000,000 galleons)Illegal removal of an item from the vault of another customer, specifically from a class 1 vault (penalty: loss of limb or 10,000,000 galleons)Theft of a restricted magical creature from Gringotts (penalty: death or 25,000,000 galleons)Damage to Gringotts London Branch, total repairs of 1,435,237 galleons"Ragnok placed the parchment down on the desk in front of him. He smiled slightly, bearing his teeth as he imagined the amount of galleons this would bring, plus how much squirming this would undoubtedly cause the famous wizard in front him to begin to go through now that the charges were read."How do you plead?" asked Ragnok.Harry looked to Neville and then back to Ragnok. "May I ask you several questions first?"Ragnok paused and then nodded that Harry may do so.Harry smiled slightly. "First of all, can you please explain to me my titles, which houses I am legally head of as far as magic is concerned?"One of the guards blurted out, "How is that relevant to this case?"Ragnok held up a hand to silence the guard, and he started to smile. Then he called for the ritual items. While he waited for a goblin to arrive he looked at Harry. "Cunning," was all he said.A minute later a goblin arrived with a small box and placed it on Ragnok's desk. Carefully Ragnok removed the items: a jewel encrusted dagger, a large parchment, a golden quill, and a rune covered bowl were brought forth and lined up. Ragnok continued to smile as he eyed Harry again. "Most wizards have been too afraid to try this ritual for many years, too afraid they might lose the houses to which they have claimed headship for many years."Harry nodded in understanding, as many of the pureblooded families would have been afraid to lose their name and titles.Ragnok then began to explain what would happen next. "The ritual is simple, just slice your palm with the dagger, and fill the bowl with your blood. Once the runes glow, then use the quill with your blood to sign your name at the top of the parchment. Magic will take care of the rest."Neville looked on with interest and a little concern. Harry glanced over at Neville and gave him a look that indicated that everything would be fine. Then he looked at the size of the bowl, and he estimated that it would take a pint or so of blood to fill it.Harry solemnly grasped the knife, and slowly he sliced across his left palm, the blood initially began to trickle and then to drip more quickly. The bowl began to fill with the dark red liquid. Harry started to feel a little light headed, but shook off the feeling. Soon the runes started to glow as the bowl was nearly full, and then the wound on his hand was healed with a brief flash of light.Harry then picked up the golden quill, dipped it into the bowl and then signed his name across the top of the parchment. He was relieved that it did not burn the way using a blood quill had done when he was a fifth year student, even though it was using his own blood as the ink.Harry James PotterFor a moment, nothing happened, and Harry feared that he was in trouble or that he had done something wrong with the ritual. Then he noticed that the runes on the bowl glowed once again. After a moment, the blood ink on the parchment seemed to glow and then that glow started to seep throughout the parchment until the entire parchment had a faint glow. After a few minutes words began to appear. Lord Potter, Noble and Ancient House of Potter Lord Black, Noble and Most Ancient House of Black Lord Slytherin, by Conquest Lord Gaunt, by Conquest Lord Lestrange, by Conquest Lord Peverell Head of House Riddle by ConquestAfter several more minutes there was a bright flash of light and the parchment was no longer glowing.Ragnok stared at the parchment and then back at Harry. "Well, Lord Potter-Black, it seems you continue to be full of surprises. Never before has the ritual filled the parchment to such an extent. Perhaps this might help you cover some of the fines that you face, but it should not cover some of the other harsher penalties."He then turned to one of the guards and spoke in gobbledygook. The guard stepped out and returned a few minutes later with another goblin who appeared to be more studious and carried a large brief case.The newly arrived goblin sat down next to Ragnok and pulled out some documents and started going through them quickly with Ragnok. After several minutes Ragnok turned to address Harry.Ragnok cleared his throat, and pulled out a new parchment. "We have revised the charges against you, Lord Potter-Black."Misrepresention of yourself to improperly access one of your vaults (penalty: 150,000 galleons)Use of charms on a teller to improperly access a vault (penalty 500,000 galleons)Improperly removing an item from a class 1 vault (penalty 500,000 galleons)Theft of a restricted magical creature from Gringotts (penalty death or 25,000,000 galleons)Damage to Gringotts London Branch, total repairs of 1,435,237 galleons"How do you plead, Lord Potter-Black?"Harry considered the new charges. "Director Ragnok, I would like to point our several things in my defence, if I may.""Please do," replied the director, "not that it will help."Harry smiled weakly as he continued. "The item that I removed from the Lestrange vault, do you know what it was?""Our records indicate that it was a highly valued relic among wizards, Helga Hufflepuff's cup. Fabled to be able to heal any disease or poison if one were to drink from it." Ragnok prided himself for already knowing exactly what the item was without looking it up."At one time it may have had those properties," agreed Harry. "Did your people not evaluate this item at the time it was placed here by Bellatrix Lestrange? Did your staff not question how such an item would have come into her possession or why she would be storing it in her vault?""We do not question why wizards do anything, you are a most illogical sort, Lord Potter-Black," replied Ragnok. "We knew it was Helga Hufflepuff's Cup. It was declared as such. Why do you waste our time?""Tom Riddle, the former Dark Lord, also known as Voldemort, gave that cup to her, and she placed it here," explained Harry. "He gave it to her after he had corrupted it. Do you know what a horcrux is?"There was silence in the room. Ragnok immediately ordered the other goblins to leave.Then he spoke to Harry. "They should not be present for this discussion. They would not know what a horcrux is, nor should they. Are you claiming that is what the cup was?""Yes, that is what enabled Riddle to return." Harry paused and took a deep breath before he continued. "That is what made him nearly immortal. It was one of several such items he had created. Once I had finally found and destroyed all of his horcruxes, I was finally able to defeat him. So, I understand that I violated your laws, that I did many wrong things to come into your bank, to steal that cup, but I needed that cup, and I needed to get it quickly so I could kill Voldemort. There was a prophecy that said that either I had to kill him or that he had to kill me. What would you have had me do? I had little time to act. Once I learned where his horcruxes were, I had to act quickly to destroy them. Once he knew what I was doing, if I didn't get to them before he moved them, all hope would be lost. So yes, I broke into Gringotts. Yes, I took the cup. No, I did not steal your dragon, he broke free on his own. I just used him as a way to escape. So I plead innocent to that charge. The dragon caused the damage, but I suppose you will bill me for that. I have no idea how much gold I have, and apparently I may have a number of vaults, so I will be willing to discuss penalties with you."Ragnok rubbed his chin, "You have given me much to think about." Then he grabbed a gavel and banged his desk and the other goblins returned.He then announced that he was rereading the charges."Misrepresenting yourself to improperly access one of your vaults (charge dismissed based on circumstances)Use of charms on a teller to improperly access a vault (penalty 10,000 galleons)Improperly removing an item from a vault a class 1 vault (charge dismissed)Theft of a restricted magical creature from Gringotts (charge dismissed)Damage to Gringotts London Branch, total repairs of 717,668 galleons"Ragnok looked at Harry as he continued. "How do you plead?""Guilty," replied Harry"Now," Ragnok continued, "we will have an accounting of your current holdings, this should be completed by tomorrow, and we will make a withdrawal of the fines from your main vault as well."The goblin with the briefcase seemed shocked and muttered something in gobbledygook.Ragnok turned to him and snapped in English, "Then get others to help you, have an accounting done on all of his families' holdings based on the heir test we just did. We will meet at 2 tomorrow afternoon!"The goblin was sweating and looked terrified as he ran out of the office. Ragnok turned back to Harry. "I look forward to seeing you again tomorrow, Lord Potter-Black!"Harry was surprised to be referred to by the title already and the surprise was clearly evident on his face. "Don't worry," commented Ragnok, "all of the appropriate documentation is being filed with the Ministry of Magic so that you will be fully recognised as Lord Potter-Black within the hour, and your head of house status for the other houses will also be recognised and incontestable."Harry was quite amazed by the turn of events by the end of the meeting. He turned to Neville, "Didn't you say you had some business you needed to take care of today?"~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Once Neville concluded his business with Gringotts, it was firmly established that he was Lord Longbottom, but he did not have any additional houses that were under his discretion, as he had been willing to try the inheritance test that he and witnessed Harry undergo. Upon leaving the bank, the two friends decided to grab some lunch at a cafe in Diagon Alley. With the war having just ended, shops were opening, but business was still slow. This suited Harry just fine as he appreciated the opportunity to actually dine in relative anonymity for a change."So, Neville, this Lordship business," began Harry in between bites of his sandwich, "what do I really need to know about it? Can you give me a quick run down, because I am really clueless."Neville laughed at Harry. "I suppose it only makes sense that you wouldn't know anything about it, since you were raised by your muggle relatives. The lords in our society are similar to lords in the muggle world."Neville paused when he noticed Harry's shocked expression. "What? I actually have studied a little bit about the muggle government. I had to in order to prepare to be a lord, but most of the purebloods ignore that stipulation. So, as I was saying, our Wizengamot is similar to the House of Lords. However, it is possible for someone to hold multiple seats, such as yourself. As Lord Potter-Black, you will have two seats, thus you will have two votes. If you know you can't be present for a session, or multiple sessions, you can choose to have a proxy present for those sessions. I think that Dumbledore had himself placed as the proxy for House Potter for years. He probably claimed he was your magical guardian to do that."Harry frowned at that thought, not liking one more thing that Dumbledore kept hidden from him for years. "Who was your proxy then?" asked Harry."Oh, my grand mum has been the voting member on the Wizengamot for years for the Longbottom family," said Neville. "But now that I am Lord Longbottom, the seat will be mine come the next session. The Wizengamot is where all of the laws for our world are made and voted on. It is also where the trials are held.""I know about that, from before fifth year, when the ministry tried to set me up and have my wand snapped," complained Harry."I remember that," said Neville with a nod. "Actually, my grandmother looked into that and after she spoke to a solicitor, she was most livid on your behalf. Apparently you should have been emancipated at the time your name came out of the goblet. As the tournament rules stated clearly that one had to be of age to compete. Once you were forced to compete then you were declared by magic to be of age, apparently there even notification of this here at the ministry, but the minister and his undersecretary chose to deliberately disregard that information. The fact that you used magic the following summer was NOT underage magic use, it was magic being used by someone who the ministry had already declared was emancipated! Theoretically you could hire a legal representation and sue the ministry for what they did to you, but that would probably be immediately dismissed as it all occurred under a different administration."Harry sighed, "I'm not sure how that will help, as Fudge is gone and Umbridge is gone. But it just goes to show how much some people in the magical world were threatened by me."Neville nodded in understanding, and then he continued, "Then of course there are the social obligations of being a Lord."Harry cast a worried look. "Social obligations? What does that mean?""Parties, ministry balls, social gatherings, charity galas, things of that sort. Eventually you'll be expected to host one yourself and invite all of the so called important people," said Neville who clearly wasn't exactly thrilled with the whole idea himself."I suppose it could be interesting," Harry thought out loud."Down right boring would be more accurate. Although there is other extreme of playing political games and dealing with manoeuvring for power within the Wizengamot which happens quite often at these functions," added Neville with a sigh. "But then again, with you being the Boy-Who-Lived and having just defeated Voldemort and saved our society from the latest war and pretty much taken out the Death Eaters, that type of political gamesmanship will be quite different as everyone will be trying to get on your good side."Harry's eyes lit up, "Which means they better be trying to get on your good side too or I won't be having anything to do with them!"Neville smiled in response to Harry's vote of confidence in their friendship."But on a more serious note, Nev, I will be needing you to do me a big favour," continued Harry."Anything," Neville readily agreed.Harry clapped him in the back. "That's the spirit, just go on and agree to what I'm asking before I tell you what it is."Neville suddenly paled slightly, worrying what it was that he had actually agreed to."No worries, no worries," said Harry with a smile, "it shows you trust me, which I hope I have truly earned. What I need you to do is to stand in as proxy for House Potter and House Black, at least for a little while." Before Neville could say anything in reply, Harry went on to explain further. "I plan on avoiding the magical world for a while, and I'm not sure how long I will be gone. So, I will need someone to represent my two houses. Who better to stand in for House Potter than House Longbottom, eh?"Neville was shocked, to say the least. "But what if I need to get a hold of you? Do I just send an owl?""I plan to be somewhere where an owl can't find me," answered Harry. "The best thing to do would be to send a message through Ragnok, I'm sure I'll leave a way for Gringotts to be able to get a hold of me."The two friends finished their lunch and made their way back to Hogwarts. Once there, Harry knew that Neville would be heading off to the greenhouses to meet up with Professor Sprout to continue salvaging any of the rare magical plants that were damaged during the battle, while he was preparing to meet up with Draco.As he was heading towards the main entrance, the youngest Malfoy was making his way out of the castle. "There you are Malfoy, I have some news for you. I have been working on a plan for us through Gringotts, and I do believe they will be able to help us with some of the necessary preparations.""Are you sure that's a wise idea, Potter? After all, I heard that you had a little bit of a run in with the goblins not too long ago," commented the blonde Slytherin.Harry raised an eyebrow wondering just what Draco may have already heard. "I just came from Gringotts this morning and I have to return there tomorrow. They're currently working on some things for me, figuring out some issues with my accounts.""Did you say accounts, as in plural?" asked a surprised Malfoy."Yeah, why? Is there something wrong with having multiple accounts?" Harry was surprised by this questioning."How can you have multiple accounts? You're just a simple half-blood," blurted Malfoy, unable to hide the prejudices he had grown up with and known all his life."Nothing's that simple Malfoy, as you will come to see," replied Harry with a smirk. "You should have figured that out long ago, hell, just look at your own family.""I know my family is messed up," retorted Draco. "I know my father ruined the Malfoy name. I only hope that through my mother I might find some hope through the Black family, as long as Aunt Bellatrix didn't ruin that side of the family."Harry looked down at his feet. Then he looked away when Draco stared at him."What is it Potter?""Your Aunt Bellatrix isn't part of the Black family anymore," Harry said quietly."I know my aunt died during the battle," Draco snapped irritatedly. "I'm not a fool, despite what you and your friends would like to think. I am well aware of the many casualties of the war.""That's not what I meant, Draco." Harry reverted to his first name to try and calm things down.Draco stared at him. "What could you possibly know about the Blacks? Other than your late godfather who disgraced…"Draco's words died in his mouth. Draco realised he had never heard it announced who the new Lord Black was."No, it can't be. You don't have any Black blood in you," protested Draco."My grandmother Potter was a Black," stated Harry calmly and defiantly. "She married a pureblood Potter, Charlus Potter.""But your father…" began Malfoy"But nothing about my father, however, my godfather declared me his heir. He was Lord Black.""But he must have forfeited the title when he was imprisoned," argued Draco."He was imprisoned wrongly. Sirius was never convicted of anything. He never had a trial. Locking a man in a room against his will proves nothing. Sirius Black was Lord Black the day he died. His last will and testament made me Lord Black." Harry was trying not to lose his temper with Draco.Draco's jaw dropped at hearing all of this.Harry continued with his explanation about Draco's aunt Bellatrix. "So, I blasted that bitch Bellatrix off the family tree the first chance I got. Well, it was more figuratively, than literally, of course, but I had to get permission from Ragnok, the goblin leader, to use my magic in Gringotts to do that while I was there, cast her out of the family that is. But I do wonder if that family tree in Grimmauld Place does have a new burn spot on it after the brief ritual I had to conduct to complete that little event."Draco stared at Harry for a minute and then he burst out laughing. "So now what?""I thought we might need to go there today, to Gringotts, but it turns out they won't have my records ready for me to review until tomorrow afternoon, so we can lay low until then," replied Harry.Just then Hermione came by as she had been searching for Harry. "Harry, aren't you coming over to the Burrow?""I was going to go for the funeral later this week," he admitted, "but not before then."Hermione finally registered that he was with Draco."Oh, hello Malfoy," she added in way of greeting."Hello, Granger," he replied stiffly."What are you doing after the funeral?" she asked as she turned back to Harry."I, or we, are looking into our plans for the summer," commented Harry, indicating he was referring to both himself and Draco.Hermione looked back and forth between the two of them. "Really? The two of you?"Draco snorted in response to her disbelief."It's a bit of a long story, Hermione," Harry said trying to avoid having to go into detail, realising too late that now he probably sealed his fate."I'm all ears, Harry," she stated as she turned on him with her hands on her hips, ignoring the third person in their company."We've come to a mutual understanding," Draco tried to explain.Hermione spun around and glared at the blonde. "What kind of mutual understanding could you reach? You and your kind tried to kill Harry and me. Multiple times, as I recall." Hermione was getting up into Malfoy's face and nearly shouting. "Your aunt carved horrible things in my arm, tortured me."Draco didn't back down or step away. "That was my aunt, that wasn't me," he stated, trying to remain calm."Is that all you can say for yourself?" Her question came out more as an accusation though.Harry tried to pull her away from the confrontation, grasping her by her shoulders."What would you have had me do? The house was full of death eaters. I had just told my aunt that I wasn't sure it was Harry," Draco continued his defence, "and we both know I bloody damn well knew it was him. What the hell else did you want me to do? I was taking a pretty big risk lying to her and all of the other Death Eaters that day. If my Aunt Bella suspected for even a moment that I had lied to her about Potter she would have cursed me on the spot, blood relation or not. Nothing mattered to her other than her devotion to that cursed Dark Lord."Hermione was about to say something more but Harry pulled her back into a hug. "It's okay Hermione. It wasn't his fault what happened to you. Clearly he couldn't stop it. None of us could stop it any quicker than we did. It's all over now, it's behind us."Hermione started to relax into Harry's arms. She looked up at him again and Harry could tell something else was bothering her.Seeing that she had something else to say, he asked, "What else is there?""After the funeral," she choked out, brushing away tears, "I'm going to Australia. I'm not sure if Ron is even going to come with me. I have to go find my parents. I need to find them. I need to at least try. I need to see if I can restore their memories, I only hope they can forgive me for what I did. Maybe, just maybe, we can return home as a family again."Draco coughed to get their attention. Draco simply stated, "You can't return home."Hermione and Harry turned to look at him.Hermione choked out between tears, "What do you know about returning home?""You, and your parents, you can't return home," he stated simply and without emotion.Hermione looked at him, and then back to Harry. After a moment the meaning of his words sunk in. She lunged at him and started beating on his chest. "You bastard! You little shite bastard! You were there with them then, weren't you. Did you have fun? What did you do, burn my house down? Did you destroy everything first, looking for them, hoping to kill them? Did you kill the neighbours when you couldn't find my parents?"Harry pulled her back away from Draco. Draco didn't do anything to defend himself, he just allowed her to hit him and scream at him. He said nothing in his defence, he neither denied anything nor did he admit anything. Harry held her tight and tried to comfort her.Finally Draco spoke as Hermione was calming down to sobs. "I know that no one was killed, there was no one there when the Death Eaters attacked. They did not attack any neighbours. Only your house was attacked and destroyed. For what its worth, and you probably won't believe me, I am glad that you sent your family away."Harry shook his head at Draco and whispered "later."Then he spoke softly to Hermione, "Come on, lets go see Madam Pomfrey, we need to get you ready to head over to the Burrow."Hermione's sobs were slowing down as she held onto Harry while he led her back into the castle and up to the infirmary."I can't believe they did that, Harry," she muttered in between sobs as they slowly walked together."Yes, you can, Hermione, and you actually knew they probably would," Harry corrected her gently. "That's why you sent your parents away. If anything, it shows that you did the right thing. Even if you can't bring their memories back, you now know without a doubt that you saved their lives. Don't worry about the house that was lost, but be thankful that no one was there, that they were safe, that you were safe."Hermione looked up at Harry and managed to smile. "When did you become so smart?"Harry looked down at her dark brown eyes and gently kissed her on her forehead. "When I found the smartest witch in the world and she became my friend."Soon they found their way to the infirmary and Madam Pomfrey sighed when she saw Harry Potter. "Now what trouble have you gotten your self into, Mr. Potter?""It's not for me, but for Hermione," he said trying to explain the situation. "I think she might need a calming draught."Hermione was holding onto Harry and smiled up at him. "I think I'm going to be okay, Harry and his words of wisdom may be just as good as a calming draught."The healer looked at the two of them carefully. "Are you sure there is nothing that either of you two need? Something for later tonight, perhaps?"Hermione blushed as she realised what was implied. Immediately she stepped away from Harry. "No, no, we're just good friends, I'm dating Ron, Ron Weasley."Madam Pomfrey didn't seem to believe the young witch. Suddenly Harry understood what was implied and he took another step away from Hermione. "Merlin's beard, no, we're just friends, like Hermione said," he protested."If you're sure you won't be needing anything else, then," said the healer. "But to be sure, I could always have Mr. Potter spend the night here, after all, he probably won't have the opportunity to do so ever again," she added with a smile. She then pointed to the cot closest to her office. "That bed over there even has your name over it, Mr. Potter."Harry smiled at her, but politely declined the offer.~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Wednesday, May 6, 1998Harry and Draco arrived at Gringotts at 2 in the afternoon, in time for Harry's meeting with Ragnok and in order for Draco to meet with the Malfoy's account manager, Grimhide. Grimhide was not exactly happy to meet with the Malfoy scion, but under the direction of Ragnok, he agreed to have documents prepared by 3 o'clock. Ragnok turned to Harry and Draco. "The statements for the Malfoy scion should not be too hard to come by. What his father has not squandered is being claimed by the ministry of magic. We will look into this matter straight away."However, Ragnok was surprised that Harry had anyone with him for his meeting about his own financial review, but Harry indicated that both he and Draco had some mutual business that they would need to conduct. Ragnok then invited them both into his office, indicating that they would deal with that business before addressing Harry's personal financial statements without any other parties present.Harry understood and readily agreed."Now, gentlemen, what can I do for you this day? It is most unusual to find a Potter and a Malfoy in company together," commented the bank director, "particularly when they seem to be in an agreeable mood."Harry smiled, but Draco remained passive in his emotions at this point, feeling uncomfortable in dealing with the goblins."First of all, the two of us plan to be living in a muggle neighbourhood for the foreseeable future, possibly in a property own, if that were possible." Harry paused as he saw Ragnok making notes. "While we are there, we really would like to make it difficult for those in the magical world to find us, so we would like our owl post to be diverted here, and then have all mail that has been screened to remove cursed items, port keys, or tracking charms forwarded by the typical muggle mail system.""We can arrange that, for a fee of course," commented Ragnok."Of course," muttered Draco, under his breath.Ragnok barely cast him a glance and chose to ignore the comment."Also, we could use muggle identification, preferably with different names," continued Harry. "I was thinking perhaps using my middle name, and my second lordship title. Draco may prefer to use another name, one that sounds similar to his first name, but might be more common in the muggle world, and perhaps use the Black surname, as he is a Black on his mother's side, he could perhaps be my cousin."Ragnok turned to face Draco. "Your thoughts, Mr. Malfoy?""I suppose that would work," he said without adding any of his usual arrogance. "Is there a muggle name that either one of you might suggest?""Andrew might work," suggested Harry.Draco considered it for a minute, "I suppose it would do."Ragnok then leafed through some of the paperwork that he had in Harry's portfolio. "How fancy of an apartment are you looking for? There is a penthouse overlooking the Thames, and then there is a two bedroom flat that sees quite spacious, in addition to a townhouse that one of the families owned. That doesn't even include 12 Grimmauld Place."Harry shivered at the thought of the former headquarters for the Order of the Phoenix and the Black Ancestral home. He briefly wondered if Kreacher was even alive still. "Perhaps the two bedroom flat might be best, if it is in a muggle neighbourhood." After a moments thought, he then added, "Wait, do many wizards or witches know about this property?"Ragnok reviewed the details. "Apparently it is owned by the Evans family, it is in a muggle neighbourhood, and was placed under a stasis charm after your parents died." The goblin looked back at Harry, "So I would gather that it is essentially unknown to the magical community.""Sounds perfect then," replied Harry with a smile. "Can it be warded to protect it from magical detection, in case certain individuals or groups are trying to search for either Mr. Malfoy or myself?""That can be arranged," said Ragnok with another grin. "So, we have muggle identification for a Mr. James Black, and a Mr. Andrew Black. I would suggest adjusting the birth dates from 1980 to 1977, making you appear to be 21, it might make certain things a little easier for you, at times. Redirecting of owl post for Harry James Potter and Draco Lucius Malfoy. Warding of the flat to prevent magical detection and scrying. Any other services which we need to perform at this time?""There is one more thing, director," began Harry, however before he could finish, one of the goblins came into the office with a folder and handed it to Ragnok.The director glanced at it momentarily and then turned to the two wizards. "Pardon the interruption, but it appears that Grimhide does indeed have the Malfoy accounts in order here.""Accounts, sir?" asked Draco, sounding more polite than any other time that he addressed a goblin in his life.Ragnok grinned. "Your father was truly a man of his house, Slytherin that is. He had set up several accounts. The ministry is after the only account that they know of. The one which was the general Malfoy family fund.""Can they do that? Go after the family accounts?" questioned Harry."They think they can," replied Ragnok, "but then they have always thought they have power here which they do not. For instance they have been trying since the day your parents died to gain access to your own wealth, but we have been able to rebuff them. Even your former headmaster has tried to access the Potter vaults, claiming he had a right to them as your guardian, but again he was continually denied access."Harry was about to comment, but Ragnok waved him silent as he continued to explain."We take our client's rights and riches seriously, Lord Potter-Black. If you cannot trust us with your valuables, then where would the economics of this world be? We would be facing another wizard-goblin war, the economic crisis would cause the world powers, even on the muggle side to spin out of control and bring financial ruin to every one. No, we will be sure to keep everything secure."Draco was still surprised by the comment about his family having more than one vault, however. "Vaults, you said vaults. Why was there more than one Malfoy vault?"Ragnok turned back to face Draco. "Your father had the usual family vault which was the one that was typically audited for most expenses. This is the vault that the Ministry of Magic is trying to claim in their legal action against him and your family. He used a separate vault from which he made the payments to the minister and other individuals in the ministry. He tried to keep these bribes hidden, but he never did a very good job in doing that. However, when he started the outright funding of the Death Eaters and Voldemort after the events of June 1995, the family finances started to take a major hit. That was when he started to divert funds from both of the original vaults to a third vault."Draco was stunned. "Do I have access to any or all of these vaults?"Ragnok's grin grew wider. "As scion of house Malfoy, you would normally have access to all three vaults. However, the ministry has placed a restriction on all known vaults of Lucius Malfoy.""Define known vaults," requested Harry."The ministry is only aware of the first vault that was bled dry by Tom Riddle and his followers," replied a still grinning Ragnok."And the other two vaults?" queried Draco."Those vaults have yet be discovered," said a still smiling Ragnok, "by the ministry that is. The existence of the vault that your father used to pay the bribes may soon come to light within the ministry. However, it will be quite some time before they have any access to what is or is not located within that vault. The third vault would be nearly impossible for the ministry to discover.""I take it that this third vault is not empty," commented Draco."Hardly," stated Ragnok as he skimmed through the documents in front of him."What if Draco were to move the contents of those vaults into a fourth vault that were to be opened under a new name, such as Andrew Black? One would presume that such a vault would be out of the purview of the Ministry," suggested Harry."Then that vault would not be discoverable by the ministry," agreed Ragnok. "That is quite astute of you, Lord Potter-Black."Draco looked at Harry and wondered why he was helping him in this.Harry was able to ascertain some of Draco's thoughts. "Hey, I don't expect you to be slumming off of me all the time, and until you actually get a job and make your own money, I hope you have something to actually help make ends meet. Besides, with the way the ministry as treated me over the past seven years, I don't think I owe them any favours."Harry then turned to Ragnok. "Why are you being so helpful with these vaults?"Ragnok gave a goblin laugh, which actually sounded almost threatening to the two wizards. "An idle vault makes no profit for us."Ragnok then reviewed the parchments one more time. "Draco Malfoy, the holding of the Malfoy family, as of this day, in the Family Vault, are 300 sickle, 45 knuts. In the Malfoy secondary vault, which your father primarily used for bribes and at times supporting the Dark Lord, is 1,245 galleons, 275 sickles, and 1,237 knuts. In the third vault, is 247,353 galleons, 4,274 sickle, 125 knuts and numerous family items. There is also your trust vault which currently holds 125,000 galleons."Draco was surprised to hear how much was there, but then he considered how much money his father must have squandered over the years. "How much can I place into a new vault?""You may place all of the amount from your trust vault, of course," explained Ragnok. "You probably could take everything out of the other vaults. Your father may not have the chance to see those vaults again, as the ministry is unlikely to let him off easy, even if your new friend here were to testify on his behalf and request clemency or express that he did something extraordinary that needs to be taken into account. Your mother, well, what becomes of her is something that is not clear. What exactly her involvement in the war is still a mystery, at least to us. If she is not imprisoned, she may be expecting that there would be family funds to support her."Draco sighed, wondering what he should do. Harry turned to him, "There will be a way to make sure she is taken care of, after all, she is still a Black."Draco took a deep breath then he turned to Ragnok. "Leave 30 sickle in the main vault. Leave 100 galleons in the secondary vault. Leave nothing in the third vault. Leave nothing in my trust vault. Put everything else in a new vault, under the name Andrew Black."Harry smiled as Draco made a hard but strong decision."It shall be done as you have said," said Ragnok, making note of everything on the parchment in front of him. Then he turned back to Harry, "You stated you had additional concerns for us."Harry felt a little uneasy about this, as he had not spoken to Draco about this. "As it is, I owe certain parties a favour, for something that was done for me this past spring. Draco had the opportunity to betray me to his Aunt Bellatrix, but for reasons known only to him, he did not do so at that time. I am also aware of a certain mark that the Malfoy scion may have acquired, a mark that may be a cause for much consternation going forward."Draco started to rub his left forearm as Harry referenced his Dark Mark."My understanding is that such a magical branding is considered permanent," continued Harry, "but I am aware that over time the marks were fading on Riddle's followers and only started to reappear when he was about to be resurrected. Would the goblin healers have a way to permanently remove the mark, even considering that with Riddle having been finally vanquished and his soul destroyed the mark should fade, there would be remnants of the mark remaining on those who received the offensive magical tattoo?"Ragnok considered the request. "It would be possible that we have a ritual that should be able to completely remove the stain. I must warn you now, that such a procedure would most likely be quite painful."Draco looked back and forth between Harry and Ragnok. He truly regretted his decision to take the Mark. "I'll do it, I'll suffer the pain if it means removing this foul mark forever."Ragnok then called for another goblin. "Mr. Malfoy, or should I say, Mr. Black, follow young Scourgeblade, and he will take you to the ritual chambers. When your arm is cleansed he will return you here. I do believe that Lord-Potter Black have concluded his business by that time, and we should have your new identification by then, and you vault keys should all be in order."Draco bowed his head slightly as he thanked Ragnok and then he thanked Harry. Then the young goblin grumbled at him to keep up as they had preparations to get to in order to accomplish the ritual.Ragnok bent over and pulled up a large portfolio which made a resounding thud as he placed it on his desk. Looking up at Harry he stated, "This is your financial data.""We're going to go through that in detail?" Harry asked."We could, however I figured it would be best to just summarise," he added with a grin, and then he pulled out a large parchment.Harry breathed a sigh of relief at not needing to go through the large portfolio."You have family vaults for each of the families we informed you about yesterday, whether you be Lord or simply head of house. In addition to that you have your trust vault, and several families had secondary vaults." Ragnok paused in his explanations to make sure Harry was following him. "Now, each of the families have some valuables, heirlooms, or other possessions in their vaults as well. We are still in the process of cataloguing all of those. We will have to arrange separate meetings for those summaries, and it may require a separate meeting for each house, at least for the Potter vaults and the Black Vaults. It may prove feasible that some of the other houses may be able to be combines when reviewing the non monetary contents. It is also apparent that most of the houses have properties attached to them. The apartment you plan to move into being one of them. A full reckoning of your real estate will also take some time, and we will notify you when that accounting is ready to take place. Once the real estate is established, then there is the issue of the magical creatures."Ragnok noted the puzzled look on Harry's face. "This refers primarily to house elves. Ownership of house elves is sometimes affiliated with the properties, but is usually affiliated with the family. If the house elves are unsure of who their master is, their magic may start to wane. It is imperative for their health and well being that any surviving house elves in these families or properties which you now own be made aware that you are their master so that their magic may begin to prosper immediately. It will also help with the upkeep and repairs of any properties that may have begun to fall into disrepair."Harry quietly muttered to himself that he hoped Hermione never found out about this."So, back to the bottom line for the financials, Lord Potter-Black," stated Ragnok, getting Harry's attention once again. "From House Peverell Vaults, you have 1,234,421 galleons. From House Lestrange Vaults, after ministry imposed fines for their various crimes, you have 45,217 galleons. From House Gaunt vaults, you have 17 galleons. From House Slytherin Vaults, you have 23,732,141 galleons. From House Black vaults, you have 12,517,839 galleons. From House Potter vaults, you have 3,842,179 galleons. Minus the fines of 717,668 galleons assessed yesterday, and the fees today of 2,345 galleons for services, your net worth based solely on galleons at hand 40,651,801 galleons."Harry sat back and felt a little stunned. Then he looked back at Ragnok. "Before you ask," added the Goblin, "the Riddle vault was completely empty."Harry nodded in understanding.Ragnok then continued. "We can have the apartment fully warded within two days, and the owl post and mail forwarding will be able to be arranged by then as well."Harry was grateful that things were working out so smoothly so far.A minute later a goblin brought in an envelope and handed it to Ragnok. After examining the contents the director spoke to Harry and informed him that the IDs were all in order for both him and Draco. Almost as if on cue, Draco was led back into the room and he was gently rubbing his left arm. Harry could see that he had been sweating as his hair was slightly matted down and his eyes seemed a little red."How did it go?" he asked his one time nemesis."We're good," replied the blonde, "it's all good now."Harry could tell there was still some residual pain, but he let it slide.Ragnok handed the new ID to Draco. "You should be able to move into the apartment by this weekend," stated the bank director. "The wards will be in place. In fact, you will be able to use magic within the apartment and the ministry will never know."Harry thanked Ragnok for everything and then the two wizards prepared to leave. As they made their way to the apparition point in Diagon Alley, Harry explained to Draco that he would be able to move to the flat after the funeral for Fred Weasley. Draco simply nodded in understanding.Once they had arrived back at Hogwarts Draco did make one comment to Harry before they parted ways. "It was actually quite surprising, and most impressive the ways you found to protect the apartment from magical detection.""I do try," Harry answered with a smirk. "And despite your comments to me repeatedly over the years, I do know some things about magic, and about avoiding detection.""I never doubted your ability to avoid accountability," laughed Draco, "you seemed to become quite proficient in that over the years."Harry let the jab go. "I will be needing to attend a funeral with the Weasleys, so we will probably move to the apartment after it is ready this weekend, when Ragnok lets me know it is ready. Then I can begin your education about muggle society and how to blend in. Your pureblooded fanaticism which you learned from your father will only get you ostracised and make it easy for any Death Eaters looking for you to try and track you down. I'll be back here at Hogwarts after the funeral. I presume you'll be staying here.""It's about the only safe place for me to be," said Draco.~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Thursday, May 7Harry arrived at the Burrow in the morning, having received a message from Ron to come by before the funeral was to be held on Friday. Harry was actually relieved to be able to spend some time with them before his planned departure from the magical world as he had been so close to them for many years. Most of those attending the funeral would be arriving just before the planned service. Harry knew that Hermione was already there. Harry apparated just outside of the wards and walked up to the Burrow. He didn't expect any special welcoming party, and he was not surprised that no one was outside as he walked up to the old house. He briefly reminisced about all of the times he had spent here, and he was particularly thankful that the home was not significantly damaged during the Death Eater attack that interrupted Bill and Fleur's wedding last summer.Arriving at the house he knocked on the door and let himself into the large family room. Immediately he was greeted by everyone who was there, essentially the entire Weasley clan. Harry wasn't sure who spoke but one of the Weasleys asked him quite clearly what his plans were for the summer, and then there was similar questions about what he was going to be doing now that he and defeated the Dark Lord.Harry was clearly uncomfortable with the question and was truing to avoid and direct answer, giving vague replies about not sure what he really wanted to do now, and just being grateful that the war is over and sad that so many had to lose their lives in the process.Hermione was irritated with his vague replied. "Go on Harry, why don't you just admit it. You and Malfoy are heading off to do something this summer."There was a stunned silence in the room in response to her words. Then everyone turned and looked at Harry.The silence was broken when Ron turned red in the face as he began to bluster. "You and Malfoy? But he's a worthless Slytherin! We were captured and brought to his manor where Hermione was tortured and they planned to turn you over to Snake face himself! You can't ever trust a slimy Slytherin! He's liable to turn on you to get revenge for your defeating his Dark Lord!"Harry shook his head as he listened to Ron spout his drivel, but he did notice Ginny quietly slip out of the room.Molly Weasley was just speechless at the news, and she was about to start her own rant against Draco. It was clear to very one in the room that she was getting worked up but Arthur walked over and quieted her before she managed to get more than a few series of words out screaming about that "horrid boy" and "good for nothing father" and "apple not falling far from the tree" and "Harry how could you dear.""Hush dear, Harry is an adult now," began Arthur in a calming tone, "I would like to think that the man, the wizard, who defeated the Dark Lord, that he is able to make such a simple decision as to what he is going to do for the rest of his life, or at least for the rest of his summer."George then spoke up in Harry's defence. "If our little Harrikins can take care of the Dark Tosser, than little Draco Malfoy should be a walk in the park."Bill added his support, "I don't know that he's got planned, but I do know that Harry managed to break into Gringotts bank, steal an artefact, defeat Voldemort, and then he met with the goblins and they essentially acquitted him of all the major charges. My understanding is that the final charges ended up with what would be considered only minor fines compared to the original penalties, so I wouldn't worry about our Harry."Harry meanwhile had walked off towards the pond by himself while everyone was debating his plans for the summer without any real knowledge of they truly were. Ginny had managed to make her own get away from her family, and she found him standing by the pond. "I heard what my family has said about what you're doing."Her words did not startle him as he had heard her walking towards him. Harry did turn and looked at her as he waited for her to say something more.She took a step closer to him and then she slapped him"I thought you cared about me," she said with tears in her eyes."I do Gin," he replied, ignoring the sting on his face. "I love you as a friend, as a sister.""I thought we were more than that," she added with an obvious pout, "but bloody hell, even a brother wouldn't treat a sister like this. Ron treats me better than this!"Harry looked at her with a little amazement at her rant. "What are you on about?""Malfoy. Fucking Malfoy!" Ginny's voice was getting louder. "His father slipped that diary into my things when I was about to start school, or don't you remember, or don't you care? Or was that just another step to creating the legend that is Harry fucking Potter?""I will not hold Draco accountable for his father's sins," replied Harry softly, trying to calm down the tensions. "Should I be held accountable for my father's sins? If so, then the way Snape treated me for my entire time at Hogwarts might be justifiable. Draco saved my life about a month ago. His mother saved my life a few days ago. Draco asked me a favour. Two life debts being exchanged for one simple favour. Frankly, I consider that a fairly even trade. I'd call it a wash."Ginny glared at him. "Is that all I am to you, a sister now?""You're a friend, a very good friend," said Harry searching his feelings as he answered her. "I don't know anymore than that. The past year was very hard on me, on everyone. I had many nights where I was alone and cold. I talked to Hermione a lot about things. I figured a few things out. One is that I'm complete rubbish when it comes to dealing with girls. Two, is that I'm not sure I'm really ready for more than being friends with you Ginny. Not really. You're great and all, you're fantastic with magic, you're amazing on a broom, and Merlin knows you're beautiful, but I just don't feel right when we're together intimately."Ginny put her hands to her face and started to cry. "But we were meant to be together. I read all your books. My mum promised me you would take me away just like in the stories. Then you saved me from the chamber. That proved the books were true, the stories were true.""But you kept dating all of those other guys," said Harry. "That sure doesn't seem to me like you thought we were meant to be together.""I had to do something while you were too busy doing who knows what and you were too thick to figure out that you belong with me," she replied defensively. "Everyone says you look just like your dad and I look just like your mum. We belong together Harry!"Harry started to back away. "That's not a good reason to be together, Ginny.""We could find other reasons to be together," she pleaded. "We worked well together at the department of mysteries."Harry nodded in agreement. "Yes, you're a great witch, and we work together well as a team, but I just don't think we make a good couple."Ginny tried to be brave and fought back tears but then she turned and ran back into the house.Harry watched her for a moment. "I suppose that could have gone worse," he said to himself. Then he sat down by the pond and idly tossed pebbles into the water, watching the ripples as they spread out across the water. After several minutes he could hear the soft footsteps of someone approaching from behind, Harry didn't look up as he continued to toss pebbles. "So, I suppose you have come to scold me for my supposed harsh treatment of Ginny now, haven't you Hermione.""No Harry, I've come to see if you're coming in for dinner," replied Hermione. "Wait, how did you know it was me?""I could tell by your footsteps," he said with a grin that she couldn't see as she was still behind him. "Besides, if it was Ron, he probably would have been screaming at me or hexing me. George wouldn't have bothered to come out, Molly would have been in a tirade about how I somehow was rude to Ginny by calmly telling her how I really felt, and Arthur wouldn't have taken the time to come out as he would have let me be. Bill and Charlie don't know me well enough to come out here, and Percy would have been a prat and would have already started on some lecture about proper behaviour. So, either by way of natural deduction you are the only left to come out here or I could tell just by the sound of your foot steps. Or both.""What did you say to the poor girl?" asked Hermione. "She was your friend. You didn't have to hurt her feelings."Harry held back is tongue from lashing out at Hermione for her comment about his summer plans. He never turned to face her even as she sat down beside him. "You know exactly what I told her. You heard me go over the whole thing while we were in the tent, my thoughts about her. You even predicted her every retort." Harry turned to look at Hermione, "I wonder how you managed to do that, but I figured it has something to do with two women and time spent together and things like that."Hermione leaned in to Harry's shoulder. They sat there in silence for several minutes. "So, you're really helping out Malfoy.""I figure he's pretty much a lost cause without some kind of major assistance, and he did ask nice."Hermione remained silent."Besides, he doesn't have his two goons anymore," continued Harry. "Goyle's family seems to have disappeared and we know what happened to Crabbe. And Draco indicated to me that the remaining Death Eaters that haven't been captured yet have a vendetta against him and his family."Another long silence engulfed the two. Eventually it was broken when Harry gently asked Hermione, "So when do you leave for Australia?""I asked Ron if he would come with me," she stated, and Harry could hear the sadness in her voice. "He indicated he has more important things to do."Harry looked around, "Yeah, like degnome the garden. Again. That will be keeping him busy for quite some time."That finally got a laugh from Hermione."I'm leaving the day after tomorrow," she finally said.Harry didn't respond.Then she asked, "How will I find you when I get back?""Gringotts will be able forward my mail," he answered noncommittally."That's not what I meant," she stated."I don't even know yet where I will be," he answered truthfully. "Right now, I just want to be away from the magical world."Hermione was surprised by his answer. She knew he had said he was planning to move to the muggle world, but the conviction in his statement surprised him. "Why would you ever say that?""Why wouldn't I? Think about what they have done to me," he began to explain. "They placed me with my aunt and uncle. Kept my godfather away from me by putting him in Azkaban without a trial. They put me through all of the ridiculousness at Hogwarts: Quirrel being possessed and trying to kill me, repeatedly; putting up with all of the accusations from every one of supposedly being the Heir of Slytherin. Dumbledore keeping secrets from me, like forever. In third year having to deal with the dementors attacking me repeatedly. Being entered into the tournament against my will and being forced to compete just so I could be used to resurrect Voldemort, and nearly getting killed, only to get branded a liar and a lunatic and then have the ministry create a smear campaign, try to have my wand snapped and then torture me throughout fifth year. Oh, and then in fifth year, what a year to remember, in addition to the torture and the smear campaign, there was the abuse by Snape, the set up by Voldemort, leading you all foolishly into a trap that could have seen you all killed, but which ended up killing Sirius. Once again facing Voldemort and being subjected to more torture. Then finally hearing the prophecy that Dumbledore hid from me for all my life, claiming it was for my protection. Once again he interfered and separated me from my only friends for most of the summer. Then sixth year wasn't so bad, at least I started to learn the truth about Tom Riddle, but Dumbledore wouldn't tell me everything, and he ended up getting cursed and then killed. Then the war started in earnest and we had to go on the run for our lives. It's not like we really had any fun this past year, trying to decipher the vague clues that were left, nearly getting caught multiple times. It is actually quite amazing any of us survived. We didn't have much help from the people we were trying to save, who hate you because your parents don't have magic, who hate me because my mum came from parents who didn't have magic, but these people who hate us and our families were too weak to stop Riddle. They were happy to sit back and let people die and let others fight this war for them. So, why would I want to get away from a world that would treat me like this, you ask? I ask you, why should I want to stay?"Hermione had tears in her eyes as she listened to Harry recount their story. It wasn't just his story, they both knew that. He made some very valid points. After a few minutes of silent tears, she finally spoke up. "Oh Harry, you can't stay away from magic forever.""I never said I was going away forever. I only said I was going away for a little while," he said softly. "Draco needs a place to hide for a little while, he needs some protection from the Death Eaters who are still loose. What's a few months away in payment for a life? I can return anytime I want. Who knows when it will be safe for him to return. Maybe Draco will discover that the muggle world isn't so bad after all."Hermione laughed at that idea."Stranger things have happened," laughed Harry."Name one," argued Hermione."You started to date Ron," countered Harry."You prat," she said as she punched him in the arm. "But it does prove one thing.""What? That you dating Ron is strange?" quipped Harry."Not that," replied Hermione, "your helping Draco. Your saving people thing, it even works for Slytherins."





--------




Moving to LondonHarry was relieved to have the funerals behind him. The interim Ministry of Magic was trying to help their society recover and move on, and Harry knew that this was the time for him to take a step in moving on by moving away. It was clear that there was no way he would ever return to Privet Drive, and he really didn't care what ever became of the Dursleys. The goblins had already completed the ward schemes that Harry had ordered.One week after visiting with the Weasley family, Harry was settling into his apartment under the name of James Black. Draco was staring at his muggle ID with the name of Andrew Black, trying to get used to the name.Sitting in the middle of the large couch he looked back at Harry, "So, why do we have to have an apartment up here on the third floor? There are so many bloody stairs!"Harry rolled his eyes. "Stop your complaining Andrew. This is considered a very nice flat. The view from our balcony is quite nice, looking out over the River Thames. Besides, it's not like you had to carry anything up here in the first place, considering the goblins or Kreacher brought everything here for us."Harry leaned back in the chair he was reclining in as he looked around their flat. "So, have you thought about the options for work yet?"Draco sneered as he looked at the newspaper. "It all seems dreadful. Malfoys weren't meant to work like this!"Harry laughed at him. "You said you wanted my help, you said you wanted to hide from the Death Eaters. So quit whining. You need to forget everything you learned growing up. You are no longer the pampered prince, you are no longer a Malfoy. You still might be a spoiled Black, but we need to figure something out."Draco shook his head, wondering how much he would regret his request of Harry. "So, we can't bloody well use our magic here can we? So what kind of jobs can we get then?" Draco was flipping through the jobs section of the paper. "What's a shot order cook then?"Harry laughed again. "I don't think you want to do that.""How about a valet?"Harry asked with a smirk, "Do you even know how to drive a car?""I could learn," snapped Draco."It's not as easy as flying a broom," quipped Harry. "Anything else there?""Secretaries, personal assistants," continued Draco."I really don't think that's the kind of job you're looking for," Harry replied, "and it's not like anything you learned at Hogwarts would prepare you for any of those jobs."Draco tossed the paper onto the small table in front of him. "Is there anything that we learned at Hogwarts that would be useful in the muggle world, considering we can't use our magic here? No silly wand waving, as Snape would say.""That's brilliant!" said Harry sitting up straighter.Draco stared at Harry with a blank look. "Of course I'm brilliant, you should have learned that long ago, but what exactly is your point?""No, potions, that's the connection," said Harry.Draco now looked confused. "I didn't think the muggles used potions, so what good will that do us.""No, but mixing potions is a little more complicated than mixing drinks. You, or we, could maybe get jobs as bartenders," exclaimed Harry."What? Do you mean work at a pub? Like the Leaky Cauldron? Do such a menial job?" Draco was beside himself as he thought about it."Not sure that we would work at something quite like the Leaky Cauldron," said Harry thoughtfully, "but there are some upscale bars. We probably can't start at the top, but we could take a class on bar tending, get a job, work our way up. There are some classy places we can work. Maybe even meet some nice girls."Draco started to pay more attention now. "This sounds like it has possibilities.""Definite possibilities," agreed Harry.The bar tending class only took two days, and then they arranged for a couple of interviews at nearby clubs that were looking to hire. In the mean time, Harry was working on teaching his "cousin" about the local community and about the habits of people in the city. Draco rather enjoyed the convenience of nearby places to buy food, but Harry had tried to explain that eating out all the time was both expensive and also tended to be less healthy. No longer having the luxury of house elves to wait on him constantly was forcing him to learn to do tasks which he used to consider beneath him, but as he was getting used to living on his own like this, Harry had even been teaching him how to cook. Draco was initially quite surprised that Harry was so talented in the kitchen, although he refused to tell him just how he had learned to cook so well.It didn't take long before they had found work as bartenders, although the place that hired them only needed one full time bartender and one part-time bartender, which suited Harry just fine. Draco (or Andrew) took the full time position, while Harry 'settled' for only working part-time and accepting less shifts. As the two of them met the staff and other muggles they explained that they had been off to boarding school and travelled but now they had returned to England. There was a vague story of a tragedy to their families that neither was willing to talk about which kept questions to a minimum about their background. With Draco's experience in potion making it didn't take long for him to become quite adept at mixing drinks. In fact, both he and Harry seemed to have a certain flare for it and were soon becoming quite popular at the bar they were working at, easily making a fair wage in tips and becoming popular with customers and the other staff as well.Sunlight streamed in through the window and woke Draco early one morning. He lay in his bed and considered for a moment where he was, and realising that he was not ensconced in the opulence of Malfoy Manor did not bother him. In fact, Draco was surprised that he could actually enjoy himself at all while living among muggles was almost disconcerting in and of itself. But when he considered that he was doing something that he was raised with the idea he would never have to do: that he had a job and actually had to work, and he was actually enjoying it, this idea was also catching him off guard.But then again, he told himself the past several years had been filled with several things that he never expected. As he lay there in bed he ran many of those thoughts through his mind. The darkest wizard in generations had essentially taken over his family's home and then forced him to join his ranks. Draco had initially thought that he wanted to do join, that the power and prestige that it would bring would be great. That was until he learned what it truly meant. Hurting those muggle girls that had been kidnapped and brought into the dungeons under the Malfoy Manor was not something he had ever expected was something he would have to do. He justified the deeds he had to do with them by telling himself that if he didn't do those things then the other Death Eaters would. He still couldn't admit to himself exactly what he had done for he was too embarrassed that he had actually committed those acts on another person, even if they were only muggles. That excuse now haunted his dreams and just thinking about it made him ill. Then to prove himself further to the Dark Lord at the end of that summer, he was told he had to kill Professor Dumbledore, the headmaster. He never particularly liked the man, but he realised over the course of the year that the "old fool" as he had been so used to referring to him, seemed to go about as easy on him when it came to meting out punishments as he had been on Potter. Then at the end of 6th year, when he had Dumbledore in front of him, an easy target, all he was able to do was cast a simple disarming spell, nothing more. At the time Draco chastised himself for doing nothing more than pulling a "Harry Potter" move as he watched his own godfather, Severus Snape actually kill Albus Dumbledore with the killing curse. He spent that night, unable to sleep, wondering if he hated Snape for actually killing someone who was already disarmed, or admiring him for having the strength of character to do what he could not. Then the war came for real, the Dark Lord's people overthrew the ministry, Snape became the new Headmaster and Draco was set to truly run things at Hogwarts. But his seventh year at school was not what he expected. The sick and twisted Carrow twins showed up, teaching those who wanted to learn how to torture the other students. Oh, yes, he had power, he was a leader of sorts, but he still had that sick feeling in his stomach. That feeling which he had to hide from everyone. And Potter was on the run. Draco was able to bluster throughout the year how Potter was afraid, how he would personally defeat Potter and hand him over to the Dark Lord once he found that half-blood traitor. But deep inside he knew he was scared as hell if he ever saw Potter again. He was sure Potter saw what happened that night at the top of the astronomy tower when he didn't have the stomach to kill Dumbledore, because he knew that Potter was there and chased Snape across the fields of Hogwarts when they all made their escape. And an angry Potter scared him more than Voldemort did during seventh year, but Draco knew he needed to hide that from everyone.Then the unthinkable happened. Draco was home one weekend in spring, and snatchers arrived and claimed they had caught Potter and the Mud-Blood. He couldn't deny that it was Granger. She scared him ever since she had the gall to punch him back in third year, but to save face he had to continue to bluster in front of his friends. He knew she was a brilliant and talented witch, but for appearances he couldn't back down so he continued to taunt her every chance he could for the remainder of their school years together. But then he saw Potter. His face was swollen, he presumed it must have been Granger who cast a stinging hex on him from point bank range to hide his identity and his tell tale scar, but the scar was still vaguely visible. When his aunt asked him to identify him as Potter, he knew if he did, and if the Dark Lord came, Potter would never forgive him. If Potter won the war, then he, Draco was a dead man. And he wasn't stupid. Potter didn't lose at the end of fifth year in the ministry halls; he didn't lose at the end of fourth year when the Dark Lord came back; he didn't lose at the end of second year in the Chamber of Secrets; he didn't lose at the of first year when he faced Professor Quirrel; he didn't lose when he was one year old. So Draco knew Potter was not about to lose even if the Dark Lord confronted him in Malfoy Manor. There was no way Draco was about to give Potter up to the Dark Lord, not this easily, he told himself back then. He'd rather face the wrath of his Aunt Bellatrix than a pissed off Potter, and that was saying something he admitted.Shaking himself from his memories he got out of bed and sat up and looked out of his window and across the city of London. He took a deep breath and sat back down in a chair in his room, contemplating all of the things that lead to him actually confront Potter after the war, daring to claim that Potter owed him a favour, especially when the more he thought about it, he was scared of Potter, the young man who was considered his nemesis for most of the past seven years, he was actually glad he had managed to pull this off. He felt that he might actually be safe from the Death Eaters who would want revenge on him for his betrayal of the Dark Lord and his followers. And still, the thing that was the most surprising, he was actually enjoying his time among these muggles. He wondered quietly,"What would father think?"Finally pulling himself out of his thoughts he realised he was hearing some unusual noises coming from the main room. Draco quickly pulled on some clothes and went to go investigate. Before he opened the door to his bedroom, he answered his own question with another one, "Who cares?""What the hell is that?" asked a surprised Draco as he stepped into the main room of the flat."A television," came the simple response from Harry who did not look away."I know what a television is, they have one in the bar," Draco said annoyed, "and the blokes all want to watch the football games.""Yeah, that they do," said Harry, concentrating on what was happening on the screen.Draco was looking back and forth at the screen and at Harry. "But what are you doing?""Oh, this, this is a video game," explained Harry, "its called a Playstation. It's like the newest thing."Draco realised that Harry was holding something in his hand connected by a thin wire to a small box. Apparently that was how he was controlling what was happening on the screen. Draco sat down and watched for a while."This isn't magic?"Harry laughed, "No, its muggle technology. There's another handset. You can play too."The rest of the morning was spent with the two of them ensconced in front of the TV trying the few games that Harry had picked up when he had bought the TV and the Playstation setup.Harry had been spending some of his days when he wasn't working or playing on his Playstation just wandering the streets of London. One such day he realised he had ended up near Charing Cross Road. He slowed his pace as he came closer to the entrance to the magical world that had been so important to him for so many years. Then he spotted a woman who was standing on the side of the road, staring at an old broken down store next to an old bookshop and a record story. Quickly Harry recognised that this was Susan Bones, a strawberry blonde witch who was in his class at Hogwarts. He also realised that she did not see him walking up from behind her."You know, you can go back, anytime you want to," Harry said softly, standing behind the red headed young woman.Susan Bones was startled as she had not heard anyone walk up behind her. She spun around and stared at the man who had spoken to her and quickly she recognised that it was none other than the famous Harry Potter."My word, Harry," she said as she tried to catch her breath, "you gave me quite the surprise there.""Sorry Susan, I didn't mean to startle you," he said with a smile. Then he continued, "I noticed you staring at the pub there. If you really miss it so, then why don't you go back?"Susan Bones stared at Harry for a moment in silence before she finally asked him, "How do you know I haven't been there for a while?""If you had, you wouldn't have that dreamy look in your eyes as you stare at a door that all of these muggles just ignore," he explained. "If you had been visiting Diagon Alley and the magical side of things regularly since the end of the war, then you wouldn't be standing here, would you?""No, I guess you're right," she admitted. Then a realisation struck her. "Then why are you here, Potter?"Harry smiled back at her, "Probably for similar reasons as you. But, maybe I was just taking a leisurely stroll through London on an otherwise beautiful day. I'd tell you more about my reasons, if you'd tell me yours, but perhaps it would be best to do it over lunch. My treat, if you'd let me," he added with a smile.The two found a simple deli not far from where they were and quickly seated. Once they had ordered their meal, Susan began to tell Harry a little about why she was living in London. "It's been a long and lonely several years since Voldemort…"Harry noticed how she had a hard time saying the name, but also how she refused to be afraid to speak the name nonetheless."Since that foul thing," she continued, "since he came back, and attacked. He had my aunt killed. I think you met her, she was the head of the DMLE and she stood in his way." She looked up at Harry. "She was rather impressed with you, even if you didn't know it, and I am sorry that I didn't do more to show you I believed you in school or that I supported you. I guess I let my friends' opinions prevent me from telling you what I really thought."Harry could see the pain in her eyes. "Susan, it's okay, you were there in the DA, you worked hard, you never seemed to doubt me in the classes we had. And I'm not talking about second year, everyone seemed to doubt me way back then."Susan looked down, "Oh my, that was Hannah who spoke out against you that year. I am so sorry, she's my best friend, and I don't know why she accused you of such things." Susan looked back up at Harry."Hey, we were young, it was a scary time, we didn't know any better," said Harry reassuringly."We all should have known better," protested Susan. "Dammit, I knew better! My parents died in the first war! I was a war orphan, just like you were! And how did you become an orphan? Everyone knows the story! You defeated him as a toddler. There was no excuse for anyone to think that you were the next Dark Lord. You saved us all, Harry Potter. You did it before any of us could remember."Susan briefly paused in her rant to wipe her mouth with her napkin, before continuing, "Apparently you did it at the end of first year, and then we eventually learned you did it again at the end of second year. No one wanted to believe you survived battling him at the end of the fourth year because Fudge was incompetent, but my Aunt Amelia never doubted you. Then there was more proof you survived another encounter with him again fifth year. Then you finally beat him, once and for all they say, at the Battle of Hogwarts." Susan took a deep breath, as she couldn't believe she had just gone on such a tirade."I'm sorry Harry for rambling so," she added softly.Harry reached out and took her hand, "No, Sue, it's okay, you don't need to apologise. Although I think everyone here is wondering what got you so upset, but I did silently cast a muffliato spell around us so they wouldn't hear what you were going on and on about."Susan started to blush and covered her eyes with her hand. She was about to apologise again and Harry stopped her. "I said it's all right, don't try and apologise again."There was an awkward silence for a few minutes before Harry spoke up, "I guess I never thought about the fact that we both lost our parents in the first war. Did you know that Tom Riddle was a half blood?""Excuse me," asked Susan, "but who is that?""Tom Riddle," stated Harry, "that's Voldemort's real name. He hated being called that. He made an anagram out of his name, Lord Voldemort was a made up name.""Oh, that's right, you did tell us about that in the DA classes," she remembered, now feeling foolish that she had forgotten about that fact."He's the one who made us both orphans," said Harry, "and it is the war that he caused in combination with all of the pure blood bigotry that caused me to want to spend some time away from the magical world."Susan smiled at his comments. "Why do I feel like you've read my mind? Those are the same reasons for me, well, that and needing some time away as I'm still mourning the loss of my aunt."Harry smiled back at her, "Well, that is one thing we don't have in common."Susan's face revealed her confusion. "What? You don't miss your parents?""Oh, I miss my parents," he said with a laugh at her question. "I barely remember a thing about them from when I was a baby. I have had a brief magical encounter with them that I really don't want to get into now, either. But what I meant is that I don't miss my aunt or my uncle. The muggles I grew up with."Harry finished the last sentence with a clear distaste in his voice and looked down and avoided any eye contact with Susan.She waited for a minute before she dared speak again. "I had heard rumours that you had a difficult time growing up."There was another silent pause as Harry continued to stare at the empty plate in front of him."I was a Hufflepuff," Susan said, trying to sound cheerful, but not overly so, "we're known for being good friends. If you need an ear to listen, I think I could be a good one. But I won't pry." She looked down at her plate and felt like kicking herself as she quietly admonished herself, "That was lame Bones, no way is he going to talk to you now you stupid girl."Harry looked up and noticed that she was now avoiding looking at him. He smiled slightly. "It's okay Sue, I've never really spoken of it to anyone, not even Hermione. She probably knows the most about it, but even she doesn't know the whole story. I doubt even Dumbledore knew the whole story, and he kept sending me back there every summer."Susan looked at him and she could tell there was a pain in his eyes. She was about to say something and started to open her mouth.Harry simply shook his head, "No, not now anyway, and definitely not here. Maybe someday, but I don't know. It's not something I have any plans on talking about. Ever."There was a certain finality to his words that shocked Susan, but his words weren't harsh, just stating it as simply as if he were telling her the weather."So, you're here in the muggle world, all alone, and your fiends must think your crazy," said Harry, trying to pick up the conversation again.Susan smiled again, "Hannah thinks I'm nutters. She doesn't understand why I need any time away from friends. She doesn't really understand me anymore."Harry was nodding, "Ron's pretty much the same way.""So you're here in the muggle world all alone too, then," commented Susan."I didn't say that," corrected Harry."Oh, you're here with Hermione," said Susan, who seemed to become a little sadder at the idea that Harry was with his near constant companion from school.Harry laughed again. "No, I am not with Hermione." In the back of his mind he decided that this was going to be fun."Well, I know you're not here with Neville, since I know that Hannah has been having increased contact with him," she said thoughtfully, trying to figure out Harry's cryptic comment of not being all alone in the muggle world. "But you're not here on your own?""No, but I do have a roommate," said Harry, with a grin.Susan was not quite puzzled. "One of the other blokes from your house?"Harry laughed, "Actually, I'd be surprised if either one of those two would really want to have that much to do with me after everything. But you would never guess who my room-mate is, so there is really no point in trying to figure it out."Susan sighed as she shrugged her shoulders. "Well, with a comment like that one might get the idea that you were staying with Malfoy of all people, but there would be no way he would live as a muggle, so go on, tell me who is it that you're living with."Harry stared at her in surprise.Susan looked back at him, "Stop staring, I'm tired of guessing." She waited another minute. "You're not being very nice, Harry."Harry shook his head in disbelief. "You already discounted who it is," he said incredulously. Harry then got the attention of their waiter and paid their tab for the meal. Before Susan could say anything he took her hand, "Let's go find one of those London Double Decker Bus tours that the Americans think are so grand. We'll spend the afternoon taking in the sights, have someone showing us around a city that neither one of us knows nearly as well as we should, and we can learn more about each other.""When are you going to answer my question though?" she asked, still irritated with him."I already told you, you answered it for yourself, you just don't know it," he said with a mischievous grin.Twenty minutes later they were sitting on the top deck of a red tour bus, enjoying the light breeze and the sunny afternoon. As the tour was beginning, Susan finally realized what Harry had implied. "How could you have decided to move in with Draco?""He told me I owed him a favour," he said simply and looked off to where the tour guide indicated some fascinating bit of history that got many of the Americans to "ooh" and "awe" and snap lots of pictures.Over the next several hours they saw a number of sights, including Piccadilly Circus, Hyde Park, Buckingham Palace and Trafalgar Square. The bus ride continued on to take them by Shakespeare's Globe Theatre, London Bridge and Big Ben and Parliament. Finally the two friends got off of the bus as Susan was going to have to head to work soon.Susan looked at one of the brochures that they had picked up, "And to think they have another tour that takes you by all of the museums!"Harry looked at the brochure, "Some of those museums look interesting. Even the zoo should be fun," he added, but silently thinking it would be a lot more fun going there without the Dursleys.As they started to walk towards Susan's flat, Harry mentioned something he had recently read about in the local paper. "Did you hear what they said about building the largest ferris wheel in the world here next year?"Susan had a puzzled look on her face. "What's a ferris wheel?"Harry was surprised at her lack of understanding as he took Susan to be one of the few purebloods he knew to actually have a fair amount of knowledge of muggle ways. She did seem quite knowledgeable about London throughout the afternoon. He then tried to explain the concept of a ferris wheel, and then other amusement park rides to Susan, and he even suggested that at some time he would have to take her to an amusement park.As they continued their short walk to her apartment, Harry realized that he really hadn't found that much out about what she was doing in London. "So, Susan, you said you wanted to get away from the magical world for a bit, but what are you doing her in London? Where are you working? I was surprised you haven't seen much of the city yet."Susan sighed as she began her reply. "Hogwarts doesn't prepare you much for muggle life, so it isn't easy to find a job." She seemed to look away as she continued to answer. "I'm working as a waitress, mostly evening shifts, since it doesn't take a whole lot of skill."Harry simply nodded in understanding as he walked along side of her, and she found his smile reassuring."I'm doing okay," she added, "and it was just brilliant that we ran into each other today. But what about you? What are you doing here, really?""Well, I already told you that I've been living with Malfoy, of all people," he began. "We've been working as bartenders, so my days are often free to do whatever. So, we could get together again someday, if you wanted to that is.""Of course, I'm really glad you ran into me over by Diagon Alley," said Susan as she slowed down her pace the closer she got to her flat. "I think this has been the best day I've had since coming to London."Harry smiled, "I'm glad. Just remember, you don't have to spend your afternoons or your mornings pining for magic. Either make up your mind and go back to visit, or drop me a line, or even swing by for a visit. We can hang out, go for a stroll in the park, whatever you want to do."Susan returned the smile. "I guess I should have started hanging out with you earlier, back when we were in school."Harry shook his head, "That may not have been a good idea, being near me back at school could be dangerous, as you may recall."Susan nodded, "Well, there is that. You definitely attracted more than your fair share of crap." They both laughed at her comment."It has been fun," he repeated."Well, it looks like we're here," she said.She opened the door to her flat and Harry waited while she got ready to go to work. He wrote down his address for his apartment, in case she decided to drop by some time. When Susan was ready for work, Harry offered to walk her to the restaurant before he returned home to his own flat. Once they arrived, she thanked him again for the enjoyable day. "We really should get together again," she said."Perhaps we should meet up at the zoo next week, or go to one of the parks," he suggested."Sounds great," she agreed.Harry walked with her to the restaurant where she worked and gave a simple hug as he said goodnight. He didn't notice her frustration with him as he turned to leave and she waved goodnight to him.Harry arrived back at his flat and looked at the mail that he had received. A couple of bills, which he tossed aside. He knew that the accounts were set up so that they would be automatically paid through his accounts at Gringotts. Then he noticed he had a letter, and it had some unusual stamps on it. It was clear it was from Hermione, and she had sent it from Australia. Quickly he opened it and read the note. He was happy to read that she had found her parents and that they were doing well. She expected to return home with them within the next couple of weeks. Harry was happy for her that her trip had been successful.He then sat down and wrote a quick letter back to her. He was grateful that she included a return address so he knew where to send it too, although he did realise it was much simpler in the magical world when he could just tell Hedwig to take an envelope directly to the person he was sending it to.Harry was letting her know that he was enjoying his time so far in London. That they had found a flat, and that they had settled in quite well so far. He was really happy that she had been able to find her parents and restore their memories. He was looking forward to seeing her when she returned to England. Harry decided not to mention too many other details, particularly if anyone in the magical world managed to intercept his letter to her in order to keep things safe and quiet.Harry and Susan get together a few days later and spent the afternoon at Hyde Park and Kensington Gardens. They both enjoyed the time to leisurely stroll through the park, watching children run around and play. Susan wanted to feed the swans in the Serpentine, but Harry didn't that would be a good idea. When they saw some teens playing with an object they were throwing around in an open area in Hyde Park, Susan wondered what they were doing. Harry remembered seeing children playing with a frisbee when he was in school when he was younger, and he tried to explain it to her. After they strolled through the gardens for a couple of hours they returned to the Serpentine and rented a paddle boat for a little while.All in all it was an enjoyable afternoon for the two of them. After Harry dropped Susan off at her flat and was making they made plans to get together to go to the London Zoo the next week. While making his way back home Harry was considering how things were working out for him with his plans stay away from the magical world. Sure, he had run into Susan, but as it turned out they did have a lot in common, being orphaned during the war. He had felt so comfortable around her, the relationship reminded him of his friendship with Hermione, without the constant reminders about doing homework or the questioning of his actions. Yes, he definitely was glad that he had a friend like Susan to spend time with, to talk about their experiences growing up and everything. He even had become comfortable enough to tell her about some of his experiences at the Dursleys, and that was something he never spoke to anyone about. Plus, he had a muggle job, not that he needed one at all, after he had learned from the goblins about all of the money he had. Once he found out about the money his family actually had, no wonder the pureblood witches and wizards looked at him funny back at school.As he walked along the sidewalk, he bumped into someone, and they both apologised to each other. The politeness which some people treated each other was refreshing to Harry, compared to the many experiences which he had growing up both at Privet Drive and then at Hogwarts. Finally reaching his apartment and sitting down and turning on the television to sit back and watch some football, he realized he was happy, he was able to relax, and he had friends. He no longer had nightmares. He was enjoying life. Life was good for Harry Potter, and right now, that life was not revolving around magic. That last thought caught him by surprise.One week later, Harry and Susan were meeting in front of the London Zoo. Susan had read muggle stories that described non magical animals, but she realized she knew more about magical and mythical beasts than the types of animals that muggles would have in this zoo, even if these animals weren't normally found anywhere near England. Once Harry paid their admission and they stepped inside they looked over the map and the brochures to plan out which exhibits they would go to first.The first big exhibit they came to was the Komodo dragons. Both Susan and Harry found it odd that they were called dragons as they didn't look anything like the beasts which were used in the Tri-Wizard Tournament. Harry even commented that they were not very impressive after having faced down a Hungarian Horntail and ridden on Ukrainian Ironbelly.Susan turned and stared at him. "Now mister, I know you faced the horntail. We all saw you do it during the horntail. But you actually rode on an Ironbelly? Even considering it's the great Harry Potter, I'm finding that a little hard to believe."Harry smiled at her comment. "Well, technically, it was Hermione, Ron and I who rode on the Ironbelly together, as we made our escape from Gringotts."Susan's eyes grew bigger at that comment."I probably shouldn't say anything more," Harry added, "the goblins don't want it being discussed. But I did pay the fines already, and I managed to be exonerated for what was considered the worst of the purported crimes surrounding the incident."Susan glared at him, "How can you leave me hanging like that?"Harry raised his eyebrows, "Simple, an oath to the goblins. You wouldn't want me struck down or cursed by a goblin now, would you?"She crossed her arms in front of her and sighed, "I supposed not."They then made their way over to the gorilla display. They arrived just in time to see the large animals being fed. As thy were grabbing fruit and vegetables and shoving it into their mouths they both had a similar idea.Harry turned to Susan as he said, "Well, even some animals have better table manners than Ron."Susan giggled and blushed as she replied, "How did you know I was thinking the same thing?"As the gorillas weren't interested in much else besides their food at this time they made their way to another exhibit. Susan saw a sign that pointed to the reptile house. Harry froze in his tracks. "I don't think that would be a good idea," he said quietly.Susan initially whined, "Oh, it might be fun."Harry didn't change his mind. "No, I'd rather not."Susan didn't notice how serious he was in his refusal at first. "But you could speak to the snakes," she pleaded.Harry tried to be gentle in his comments to her. "What would everyone think if I started hissing at the snakes? Besides I had an unpleasant experience there once, before I even knew I was a wizard, it was the first time I ever spoke to a snake." He thought back to the time he came here for Dudley's birthday not long before he received his letter for Hogwarts. "The snake was fine - I think the boa constrictor wanted to escape and try and find its way back to South America though. I actually performed some accidental magic. The glass disappeared to the boa's display, the snake escaped and my cousin fell into the display. I had no idea what happened, as I didn't know anything about magic, by my aunt an uncle blamed me for everything, and I was punished for it later."Susan could hear the pain in his voice as Harry spoke of the event that occurred so long ago. She took him by the hand and led him in another direction. "Here, this way is the Asian otter display."That comment definitely broke him out of his melancholy. Upon arriving at the new display they watched the family of otters frolicking in the water and around their habitat. Harry was quickly smiling as he watched them play.Susan noticed his smile. "What is it? What brought that smile about so quick?"Harry turned to face Susan. "They remind me of Hermione."Susan frowned a little at the mention of Hermione.Harry wasn't sure why the mention of his best friend would upset Susan, but he went on to explain. "Her patronus, it's an otter. And they're so playful, watching these little guys play reminds me of her patronus and how happy she was when she was finally able to cast it back in the DA classes." He turned back to watch them play some more.Susan now understood a little better about what made Harry happy. His friends, and things that made his friends happy. She recalled how seeing his friends being successful in the DA classes really made him excited. She reached out and took his hand and squeezed it slightly, hoping he would know she was happy for him now, seeing how watching the otters was making him happy.After a while, they moved on to the big cats display, where there were the Asian lions, the Sumatran tigers and the serval. As they came upon the Asiatic lions, Susan decided to have some fun teasing him. "This should be right up your alley, being a Gryffindor, you're all supposed to be lions," quipped Susan.Harry chuckled a little at her comment, "Maybe they have a badger here somewhere at the zoo just for you, Susan."Harry and Susan continued walking side by side having fun, making comments about the many different animals they saw at the other displays. The bright and colourful birds, the fun and active monkeys swinging and jumping from their logs and trees. Eventually they came to the aquarium which was an area that the zoo was well known for, as it had been built up for many years.As they walked in to look at the brightly coloured tropical fish, Susan quipped, "I bet they don't have a giant squid."Harry smiled at her comment as they bumped shoulders in the midst of the crowd and he whispered in her ear, "Or any mermen."Susan looked back up into his eyes, "That's right, you had to deal with them during the second task. Cedric did tell us about that after he had to rescue Cho." Suddenly she put her hand to her mouth as she gasped. "Oh, I'm sorry, I shouldn't have brought that up."Harry narrowed his eyes as he looked at her, wondering why she had become upset. "Why not? Oh, because you mentioned Cedric? It's okay. You don't have to avoid mentioning people who died during the war. Yeah, I used to blame myself for Cedric's death, but it's okay." Harry reached out and gently took Susan's hand and squeezed it slightly to reassure her. "I can handle things much better nowadays. That's part of why I came here to live away from magic, to help me process all of that stuff, especially with so many people who had died."Harry could tell that Susan wasn't entirely convinced, so he reached out and put his arm around her shoulders and guided her through the aquarium. He pointed out some of the fish that he thought were particularly fascinating to look at. His gesture seemed to calm her down, which made Harry glad that he could help her out. However, he was oblivious to the looks that she was giving him as they made their way through the aquarium. By the time the finished their brief visit among the fish, Susan was leaning her head upon his shoulder, and Harry was relieved that she was relaxed enough to rest on him and that they were becoming good enough friends that she was comfortable enough with him to be close like this.Once they were back outside Harry noticed the time. "It looks like I need to get you back home so you can get to work on time," he said.Susan frowned, "But we were having such a good time.""Yeah, we were," he agreed. Then he added, "It looks like my schedule might be getting busy over the next week. When do you want to hang out again next?"Susan wasn't sure if she was being rebuffed or if he really was busy, but as she looked up in his eyes she could see he was serious about what he was saying, and she had never known Harry to be anything but honest with her. "Maybe we could do something different next week."Harry considered her suggestion, "Well, we could go to a movie, muggles do that sort of thing often. I gather 'The Man in the Iron Mask' has been a popular one recently."Susan considered his words, "I've never been to the movies before, so that does sound like fun."While Susan and Harry were enjoying the London Zoo…Hermione arrived at the Harry's flat, hoping to surprise Harry with a visit. She had recently learned that she had been accepted to start at Oxford University to study law, and she didn't want to share the news in a letter. But as she knew there was a good chance he might not be home, she did write down the information in a brief note to leave behind in case she missed him. She had memorised his address from the last letter he had sent to her, and she set off to find her best friend.Draco was at home at the flat when there was a knock at the door. He had just stepped out of the shower and had quickly pulled on some jeans and threw on a t-shirt. He yelled "I'm coming, I'm coming," as he ran a towel through his hair he walked to the door."Oh its you," said a startled Hermione Granger as she stared at the image of a slightly wet Draco Malfoy in front of her."What did you expect? I do live here," he added. "You did know that, didn't you Granger?"Hermione rolled her eyes. "Is Harry around?"Draco shook his head. "He's out with someone."Hermione was surprised by this answer. "What do you mean?"Draco looked at her like she was daft. "As in he's out, he's not in. Not here, not at home, he's somewhere else at the moment, presently in a different location. Does that explain things better?" Noting her exasperated look he gave her an answer more in line with what she was expecting. "He went to the zoo with some girl he met."Hermione was clearly surprised. "Harry didn't tell me he met a girl.""He doesn't tell me everything either," commented Draco dryly.Hermione glared at him. "Oh, are you two best mates now?" Her sarcasm was evident in her tone."Never said that," he said simply. "We have learned to tolerate each other. Kind of had to, with sharing a place to live, and working at the same place.""Where do you work?" Hermione realized that Harry hadn't even told her that in the letter he had sent her."Harry didn't tell you that? Wow," he added with surprise."No, he didn't mention that," and her frustration was becoming evident.Draco actually opened the door and allowed her to enter the apartment. Hermione was surprised when he sat down and seemed to indicate that she could take a seat to."I guess he doesn't tell you everything," commented Draco. "I thought he told you everything when we were at school."Hermione looked at him carefully. "Why would you think that?"Draco just smirked, enjoying the flustered look on her face.Hermione ignored the look he gave her. "Do you know when he'll be back?"Dropping the smirk, he replied, "I'm not his social secretary, and I don't take messages for him.""No, I don't suppose you would," she commented, still irritated with him. "And you wouldn't give him a note if I left it for him would you?"Draco looked at her, narrowing his eyes. "What's in it for me if I did?"Hermione's frustration continued to grow. "Why does everything have to revolve around you? Why can't you just do something to be nice?""Because I'm not a Hufflepuff," he deadpanned, "and I'm not a Weasley.""No," she added, "you're still just an obnoxious ferret.""But a cute one," he added with another smirk.Hermione couldn't stop her blush and quickly turned away.Draco spoke to her back as she had turned away. "What do you want me to tell Harry? That his long lost love has returned?"Hermione turned around at that comment. "What? We're just friends!"Draco smirked again, "Keep telling yourself that."Hermione glared at him again. "What do you know about anything Malfoy?" By now she was standing up again."It's Black now, Andrew Black," he corrected, "and he's James Black. Didn't he tell you the names we need to use in the muggle world?""Whatever," she said, fully exasperated by the conversation.Draco laughed at her and he rose again and went to lean against the counter by the kitchen.Hermione looked up at him. "Why do you have to be such an arse?"Draco retorted, "Why do you have to be such a priss?"As he said that he noted her hands were tightening into fists and he quickly added, "Calm down, Granger.""Why, are you planning to insult me again?""No, I'm not," he explained, "but I'd rather not have you punch me either."Hermione looked down at her hands and relaxed them as she straightened out her fingers. "I wasn't really going to punch you.""Says you," he quipped, "you did it once before.""Yes, but you deserved it then," Hermione said haughtily, "and that was way back in third year."Draco paused before replying, "Yes, you're right, I did. And for what it's worth, and I know it's several years too late, but I am sorry, I never should have called you that name."Hermione wasn't sure she heard correctly. "Excuse me?""I do believe you heard what I said, Granger." Draco looked at her, keeping his features blank.Hermione still searched for some sort of emotion on his face. "Yes, I did, but I don't believe it."Draco wasn't sure how to react to her statement. "You don't believe me?""No, that's not what I meant," she replied defensively, straightening up and crossing her arms in front of her chest. "I can hardly believe that Draco Malfoy of all people is apologising to me for anything." She then started to look around the flat. "All right, who's pranking me today?"Draco's lips started to turn into a slight smile. "There is no one else here."Hermione stared at him for a moment. "Who are you and what have you done with Draco Malfoy?"Draco laughed slightly at her words.She then looked at him with her head slightly tilted, trying to decide what to make of him. "You're not the same person who harassed me for the first six years at Hogwarts."Draco suppressed a laugh. "Merlin, I hope not."Hermione tried not to stare at him any more, "This is getting really awkward, I think I need to be going."Draco nodded, "Do you have a message for Harry?"Hermione realized that there was a reason she had come here in the first place. "Yeah, will you give him this letter?" She then pulled out the envelope she had with her note for Harry.Draco took the envelope from her. "It's okay, I'll leave it for him, and I'll be sure it's somewhere that he can and will find it," he assured her.Hermione handed him the letter and turned quickly and left the flat, wondering just what the hell was going on in there. Her mind was racing with all sorts of strange thoughts.Draco Malfoy had apologised to her for the way he had treated her. Then she started feeling really uncomfortable all of the sudden and she just had to leave. As she was walking down the street away from Harry's flat she realized that she never asked if they had a phone, or how she might contact Harry other than through sending a letter or stopping by. And then she considered that Harry was apparently on some sort of date with a muggle woman he met here in London, and to top it off, Draco was being nice to her. For Hermione Granger, life couldn't possibly get anymore strange than it was already.Later that day, Harry arrived home to his flat. Draco had already headed off to work. As it was now early in the evening, the shadows in the room were making the room a little darker. Harry turned the lights on and noted that there was an envelope on the counter in the kitchen. He glanced at it and he was surprised to see his name written on it, but he realized that it was in Hermione's neat handwriting. He reached for the envelope as he wondered how it managed to appear in the room, as there was no postage on it. Draco wasn't around to explain how it arrived so Harry decided to just read the letter and worry about how it managed to show up later. He grabbed a bottle of water out of the refrigerator and sat down in a chair and kicked his shoes off and relaxed as he tore the envelope open."Harry,I am so received to be back in England. I have been looking forward to seeing you again. Mum and Dad are getting settled back in their dental practices, but the adjustments have been hard on everyone so far. I wrote out this note just in case I don't get a chance to see you the first time I stop by, but I was so glad you let me know where you are staying in London. I hope everything is working out for you so far.I can't imagine what it must be like to be spending your time not using magic after the past seven years, but I guess I will be learning about it soon. If I haven't already told you, I have been accepted to start at university. I will be enrolling at Oxford in their legal program. Hopefully I can put the degree to good use down the road in working for rights for all magical creatures.Hopefully we can get together soon, I've missed you so much.Please keep in touch, you can send me a letter at my parents' address until I have a place at university.Love,Hermione"Harry was happy to read that she was back in England. He again considered how the letter arrived in the flat, and he presumed she must have stopped by when Draco was still there, and he quickly surmised that such an encounter must have not been a pleasant one, particularly considering how things went the last time they had a run in back at Hogwarts.Harry stood up and went to his bedroom and placed the letter from Hermione in a drawer on his bedside table. He changed his clothes and decided to head out to the bar where he and Draco worked and see if he could get some answers. He didn't have any other plans for the evening as Susan was working another evening shift.When Harry arrived at the bar he called over to Draco and asked for a pint of stout. Draco was chatting with a young blonde woman who was sitting at the end of the bar. Draco waved Harry over. The woman seemed to be familiar to him as he was walking down the length of the bar."Miss Greengrass, I would like you to meet my cousin, James Black," said Draco, "he works here some nights."The blonde woman turned to look at Harry, "It's nice to meet you finally, Har…I mean 'James.' You remind me of someone from school," she added with a wink as she held out her hand which he graciously took and kissed gently. "You may call me Daphne," she added."Please call me James," he replied, "and feel free to call me any time," he added with a sly grin. "I wish we had met sooner. I do remember you from school, even if we have never formally met."Daphne smiled, "I never realized that you and 'Andrew' were related.""We didn't realise it at first," he replied, "but as it turns out, it's not such a bad thing after all."Harry sat back into the stool next to Daphne. Just then another patron in the bar came up and offered to buy Daphne a drink. 'Andrew' politely declined the sale, "She's a little preoccupied with an old school friend at this time, and he doesn't like being interrupted."The would-be-Romeo, who stood about 6 foot 4 and weighed over 200 pounds looked over at Harry and frowned, "Who, that skinny guy?"'Andrew' leaned forward and spoke softly, "He may not look like much, but I hear he is one of the toughest guys around, I wouldn't suggest messing with him."The man grunted and looked back at the bartender. "How would you know?"'Andrew' looked from side to side before turning back to the man and speaking softly, "I've seen him kill someone before, that's how I know."The man looked at Draco and saw that there was no smirk, no smile, no mirth, but a seriousness that was not to be trifled with. He then looked back at Harry and Daphne, and then he turned back to Draco, "A real psycho then, eh?"Draco just nodded in agreement, "I've heard he even thinks he can talk with snakes."Then the man just walked away, shaking his head, "Bloody crazy blighter."Meanwhile Harry was asking Daphne what she was doing in muggle London, and she had explained that she was working for a company that had contacts with her father's import business. Draco interrupted their conversation and pointed out the large man who walked away after he had discouraged him from buying Daphne a drink. "You may want to take this elsewhere, obviously he's not a regular as he didn't recognise 'James', but it may be a little quieter for you two to catch up, and save me from having to watch your backs. So, why don't you go somewhere else and let someone else do it for you."Harry looked over at the man who was staring at them. He lifted his pint in a mock toast at him which caused him to turn around abruptly. Harry turned back to Draco, "What the hell did you tell him?"Draco smiled mischievously, "Only the truth, just that I'd seen you kill someone before. That scared him off."Harry shook his head. Turning to Daphne he then asked her if she'd rather go somewhere else, and she agreed. The two then headed out, as Harry asked "So, what are you up for? Want a bite to eat, or something to drink, or just want to do some dancing?"Daphne smiled, "How about all three, we could start with a light dinner, I never really got to know the Boy-Who-Lived in school, especially the way Draco there kept trying to get everyone in Slytherin to hate you. You could tell me about the real you, not the myth or the legend, then we could find something fun to do later.""That sounds like a plan," Harry readily agreed.Harry and Daphne made their way out of the bar and found a simple restaurant where they grabbed a light meal."So, you and Draco," began Daphne, "that's something I never saw coming."Harry had a puzzled expression, then he realized what she meant, "What? No, we're just sharing an apartment."Daphne laughed at him for a moment. "Oh, I was wondering if that was the reason why the two of you had left the magical world. That sort of thing is really looked down upon among purebloods." Then after a pause she added, "Unless it's between witches if they're also sharing a wizard. But two wizards, well that sort of thing just isn't acceptable."Harry was a little flustered at first. "I would have thought Draco explained why we're here."Daphne laughed again, "Oh he did tell me why you two were living among muggles. But it's Draco we're talking about, that doesn't mean I believed a word he told me."Harry laughed in response. "So, what brings a pureblood princess like you to live among muggles."Daphne narrowed her eyes before she answered him. "Look Potter, we barely even know each other, but that seems like its about to change, so what the hell, I guess I don't have any reason to hide from you. Being the heiress to a pureblood family when there isn't a male heir isn't all fun and games. Either I marry who my parents tell me to, or I produce a male heir, or I find some way to make it on my own. Or I improvise. This is improvising."Harry nodded as he tried to understand what she was saying. "Getting away from the magical world seems to be a common theme for people this summer."Daphne smiled in response. "You know Potter…""You can call me Harry, we're not in school, and Draco's not about to hex you for being nice to me now," he said as he interrupted her."Fine, Harry," she acquiesced, "I always wondered about those stories we heard about you throughout the years. I know Draco was always telling us they were lies, but I knew Hermione in a couple of classes. I had to believe that some of the tales were true."Harry rolled his eyes. "Since I'm really not sure which stories you're talking about as I only was in the Slytherin common room once, you'll have to enlighten me."Daphne's mouth gaped, "Wait, how in Merlin's name did you ever get into our common room? And when?"Harry smiled broadly at her question. "Second year, with all of the rumours about who was the Heir of Slytherin. We thought it must have been Malfoy, so we used polyjuice potion, Ron and I changed into Crabbe and Goyle, followed Draco in one night and eventually figured out Draco knew nothing about the Heir of Slytherin."Daphne narrowed her eyes and clearly doubted his story. "That was during second year, what did you do, pinch some polyjuice from Snape?""No," said Harry proudly, "Hermione brewed it."Daphne was stunned for a moment, then she nodded her head, "Well I guess that does make sense in a queer sort of way.""Okay, I revealed something of my past," stated Harry, "you should tell me something about you.""Fine," agreed Daphne as she drummed her finger nails on the table trying to think of something to share, "I have a younger sister who had a crush on Draco, for the love of Merlin I have no idea why." Before Harry could protest that her information wasn't really noteworthy she asked him another question. "Back to our second year, is it true you killed a large snake and that you found the Chamber of Secrets?"Harry sighed, "If this is going to be another bout of Potter reveals the truth behind of all of the rumours, what do I get out of it?"Daphne thought about his question for about five seconds and then she answered sweetly, "You get the pleasure of going dancing with me all night, and I'll even be nice to you the whole evening."Harry grinned as he replied, "Most guys in my year would probably kill for an opportunity like this."Daphne smiled and lowered her eyelids seductively, "Yes, I'm well aware of how you blokes talked about me behind my back, and even to my face a few times.""Fine," said Harry, "I guess it's a deal," he added with a smile. "So, it wasn't a snake in the Chamber of Secrets. It was a basilisk. A rather large one, considering it was about 60 feet long."Daphne's eyes went wide as she was quite impressed. "You're a Gryffindor, not a Slytherin, you better not be lying to me about any of this.""I wouldn't dream of it," he said. "Besides, here's the scar from where it bit my arm," he added as he pointed to the round mark on his right arm.Daphne was clearly skeptical now, "Everyone knows that basilisk venom is fatal, so try another one, Potter, I'm not that gullible.""Phoenix tears," he said."Excuse me," replied Daphne."I think you heard me, I said phoenix tears," repeated Harry. When she just stared at him blankly he went on to explain. "Fawkes, Dumbledore's phoenix, cried into the wound. Phoenix tears can heal pretty much anything."Daphne meekly responded with "Oh." She looked back and forth between the scar on his arm and his face. After a minute she finally added, "Well, you were, or are, the Boy-Who-Lived, as you did survive the killing curse when you were just one.""And back in May," Harry said quietly."What? When? During the battle? Was that when He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named carried you out from the Forbidden Forest and told everyone he had killed you? We all thought that the war was over," Daphne said, and Harry could tell that she was upset as she recalled that day. "I know most of the Slytherins refused to join in with the students and the faculty and all during that battle, but several of my friends and I, we were fighting on your side Harry.""I'm glad to hear it," he said in reply. "By the way, his real name was Tom Marvolo Riddle, he was a half-blood. People should not be afraid to use his name, especially now that he is truly dead and gone for good. He is not coming back ever again."Daphne was clearly relieved to hear Harry say that and she expressed her feelings about that very matter. "By the way, after the tournament, there was still a lot of talk about what really happened. I know you always stated you didn't put your name in the cup, but no one in Slytherin ever knew the real story of how you were entered in the first place. Snape refused to tell anyone, he only muttered about your being a spoiled pampered brat and your eternal quest for fame just like your father."Harry became quite irritated at the mention of his nemesis. "Snape hated my father and he hated me because of that. As to the tournament, there was a Death Eater who was impersonating Mad-Eye Moody, he put my name in the cup so that when I won the tournament I would sent via port key to a place to be used in a ritual to bring back Tom Riddle into a bodily form. That was when they killed Cedric. But Fudge and the ministry didn't want to believe me because that would mean trouble and difficult things to explain. It was easier for them to claim I was starkers. But all the Death Eaters knew, and they laughed about it."Daphne could tell that this was getting Harry upset. Harry stopped his story and took a drink of water."Maybe that's enough of me asking you about the truth of the rumours about you tonight," she said as she reached out and placed a hand on his gently to try and comfort him.Harry looked at her hand and then up at Daphne and he noted the compassion in her face. "It's okay, really, it is. It was a difficult time back then. But now everything is much better. Things are good, really good."Daphne smiled at him. "After everything you did, you deserve good."Harry blushed a little. "Thanks, I guess." He still had difficulty with accepting praise from others.Soon they had finished and paid their tab. Daphne told him of a place where they could go dancing that wasn't very far away. As they walked there she told him that she basically worked as a receptionist for an important business that had on rare occasions done some business dealings with her father. They ended up spending the next several hours dancing at the club as they got to know each other a little better.Harry finally arrived back at his flat at about 2:30 in the morning."You seem to be having fun," commented Draco.Harry grabbed a water bottle out of the refrigerator and dropped himself down onto the sofa. "Yeah, I think I am."Draco smirked at him.Harry returned the smirk with a glare. "What? I'm just having fun! I've never been more relaxed in my life!""So, what did you and Daphne get up to tonight?""We grabbed a bite to eat and then we went out and did some dancing," mused Harry.Draco laughed, "When was the last time you went dancing?""The Yule Ball, I think," said Harry joining in on the laughter. "If you could call what I did dancing.""I wouldn't," added Draco.Harry noticed the time, "No wonder I'm so tired, I need to get to bed."As Harry was walking off to his bedroom Draco called after him, "Do you plan on getting together with Daphne again?"Harry stopped as he thought about it, "I think I might, she's a lot of fun," then he added just to tease Draco, "particularly for a Slytherin.""She's been a friend of mine for years," commented Draco, "hurt her and I just might have to do something drastic."Just before Harry shut his bedroom door he called back out, "At least you didn't threaten to tell your father!"AN: This chapter required several revisions to deal with anachronisms I detected in proof reading it. Hopefully those have all been removed. With upcoming family obligations (travel, wedding, etc.), ongoing revisions on LE-DH, and considerations for new plot twists in this story, it may be a while before this gets updated (as in a few weeks, not sure).Thanks for your continued support.





--------




AN: This is a shorter chapter than the others, but it does include a little more action...Late August 1998Draco and Harry were relaxing in their apartment one afternoon. They each were drinking a pint of stout, when Draco started to ask Harry about his personal life."So, how do you do it?"Harry gave him a puzzled look. "How do I do what?""You spend your afternoons with Susan Bones and your evenings, when you're not at work, you're usually out with Daphne," Draco explained in between sips. "How do you do it?"Harry looked at Draco, still puzzled a little by the question. "Susan and I hang out as friends. I've been helping her learn about muggle life and muggle London."Draco laughed a little at Harry's comment. "At what point do you think she will have learned enough about muggle London to get around on her own? After you have had her memorise the entire London underground system and the bus schedule?" Draco shook his head as he laughed a little more at the absurdity of the idea, then he continued with his comments, "Or are you waiting until you have shown her every site in the city? Where haven't you two been yet? Trafalgar Square? I'm pretty sure you've been there. Buckingham Palace? If you haven't been yet, just let her majesty know that you're the one that ended the last wizarding war by putting down Voldemort. I'm sure the queen would probably invite you in for a spot of tea. House of Parliament? Westminster Abbey? I could have sworn I heard you mumble something about the two of you going there at some point."Harry was clearly a little irritated with Draco's brief monologue. "We may have been to most of those places," he stubbornly agreed."So, what is it Harry? What's up with you and Susan?""We like spending time together," explained Harry, "it's not like I ever had many friends before." Harry wasn't able to hide the irritation from his voice."Yeah, just you and the weasel and the walking magical encyclopaedia," commented Draco.Harry was about to glare at Draco, but then he realized that it was about the least antagonistic remarks he ever made about the other two members of the former golden trio."Well, they were the first friends I ever had," added Harry."As I recall, I did actually offer to be your friend back at the beginning of first year," stated Draco."Sorry, but that really wasn't much of an offer, back then," Harry added with a smile."Well, your small circle of friends has grown a little," said Draco, "now you have me, and Susan. And I guess we can add Daphne to the list as well."Harry shrugged his shoulders at the statement, wondering where Draco was still going with this.Draco went back to his earlier comments about Susan. "So, you hang out with Bones in the afternoon.""As friends," agreed Harry, "we already established that.""As friends," continued Draco, "then you go and party and dance with Daphne at night.""She's a good dancer," said Harry, "and we have fun."Draco smirked at his roommate, "No one at Hogwarts ever accused Greengrass of being a fun date.""Wait, what? She wasn't a fun date? I don't understand." Harry was obviously perplexed."Never heard of her nickname? The Ice Queen? She never let guys get close," explains Draco. "Rumour was she hexed a couple of guys right in the bollocks for making moves on her. Froze one bloke's John Thomas. Most guys learned to steer clear of her."Harry was surprised at this comment. "Obviously I wouldn't have known, dating wasn't one of my extracurricular activities when we were at school, and I definitely wasn't about to try and date any Slytherins. I was pretty much limited to quidditch, harassing you or being harassed by you, and challenging Dark Lords and trying not to get killed," replied Harry. "Usually I had a pretty full plate. That didn't leave much time for dating. And the few attempts at dating actually ended up quite miserable.""So we all heard," laughed Draco.Harry raised an eyebrow and glared at Draco."What? The gossip mill was never quiet around Hogwarts," snickered Draco, "no matter what house you are in. You know, it really wasn't nice what you and the Weasel did to the Patil twins at the Yule Ball in fourth year.""I know, I know, and I have apologised to Parvati, multiple times," lamented Harry. "I've even apologised to Padma for Ron, I figured he's too much of a git to apologise to her properly for his own bad behaviour."Draco suddenly changed subjects. "So, is it true that the Weasel and the Encyclopaedia are really dating?""Last I knew, they were, but I don't think they are, or at least I think that maybe they're not anymore," Harry said. "Hermione didn't really say in the note she left for me, but I could tell that things weren't going well before she left. And I haven't heard a word from Ron all summer, but then again there's nothing unusual about that."Draco tried to mask his interest. "Oh?""Well, Ron was being a right git," Harry explained.Draco laughed at the comment. "When isn't he?"Harry continued to think about what happened out loud. "Hermione had to go get her parents, from Australia.""So I heard," commented Draco, "as I told her it was a good idea to send them away."Harry eyed Draco carefully. "Funny thing about that, you seemed to know something about more about that.""We're not going there," commented Draco sternly. "Or at least I'm not going there with you. It's none of your business."Harry wanted to press the issue, but he decided to let it go. "Well, Ron refused to help her find her parents, and now that she's back, she plans to go to university.""University, as in a muggle school," commented Draco, trying to make sure he understood."Right, so, if even they're still together," explained Harry, "I'm sure Ron will go round the twist with that, so I doubt that they would last much longer with that news."Harry wasn't sure if Draco seemed to smile at that comment, but he decided if he did it was probably just because it was something that would make Ron miserable.Draco then leaned back as he put down his now empty glass. "So, you're still an idiot, Potter."Harry tilted his head as he looked at Draco, "Come again?""You, and your being friends with two beautiful girls," said Draco as he got up and headed towards his room, "you're either gay, or you're an idiot."Harry called after Draco, "I'm not gay!"Draco called back, "Like I said, you're an idiot!"~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Walther Crabbe was an angry man. He was also a very fortunate man. Somehow he had managed to evade capture in the aftermath of what was now haled as the Battle of Hogwarts, or what his friends had called the Desecration of the Pure-Blood Way. That was the night that his son, Vincent, had died bravely trying to kill the upstart who had ultimately taken down the Dark Lord. From the stories that he had heard, Vincent and Gregory along with the traitor Malfoy had cornered Potter and his friends the Room of Requirement. Vincent had bravely tried to take them out by using Feindfyre, but the spell spun out of control, and Malfoy and Potter escaped, leaving Vincent to die horribly. But Walther had vowed to avenge his son's death.He had initially been working on hiding from the Aurors. In the chaos following the battle, that wasn't too difficult as the ministry was in disarray. Then he needed to get information about the whereabouts of either Malfoy or Potter, but getting back to Knockturn Alley was not easy once the new interim Ministry was set up as that was the first place they began to search for missing Death Eaters. So Walther Crabbe decided to stay in muggle London, a most distasteful place for him, but at least he was safe. By August he decided it might be safe enough to venture into Knockturn Alley, but he figured he would need to use a disillusionment charm to get in there to gather information. It did not take him long to discover that both of his targets, Malfoy and Potter, had essentially disappeared by the end of June. Even their friends hadn't seen the two. Crabbe wasn't surprised that Malfoy hadn't been seen, because after all, he knew that deep down the blonde haired son was essentially no different from his father, an arrogant styling bastard who was really just a coward. Why else would he have hidden behind his son Vincent and his friend Gregory Goyle for all of those years at school? But then this Potter disappearing, that was a bigger mystery. He was the hero, he had defeated the Dark Lord for a second time. Why would he have disappeared? That was something that made him be a little more cautious, because after all, Walther knew that he did not have a reputation of being an exceptionally strong or powerful wizard. But he was not sorted into the House of Slytherin without cause, for he had plenty of cunning. He just wished his son had inherited a little more of it, and then he might have survived that fateful night, although the outcome of the battle would have likely not been changed. However, He now knew that he needed to focus on the muggle world, for chances on that is where Malfoy had gone into hiding as there would be no one left in the magical world who would dare hide him. He had made too many enemies during his years at Hogwarts with those on the side of the Light such as Potter and the late Albus Dumbledore, whom Malfoy had even been involved in the plot to murder; and he had betrayed the side of the Death Eaters when it was revealed that his mother lied to the Dark Lord about Potter's death as it became clear that he had somehow once again survived the killing curse, and then it had also been revealed that he had lied about Potter being captured by snatchers over a month prior to the final battle and apparently he and Potter had worked together to escape the Room of Requirement when Vincent died. The more he thought about it, the more he considered the possibility that Malfoy and Potter may be in this together.Walther Crabbe decided that he had one advantage, searching for Potter and Malfoy among the muggles would keep him away from any Aurors that might be searching for him. Before he left Knockturn Alley, he had managed to get copies of pictures of both Potter and Malfoy from old editions of the Daily Prophet, and then he had to have them made into still pictures so that they would appear normal to muggles.He had been making his way through various bars and establishments, trying to find anyone who might have seen them somewhere. After two weeks, he had not had any success. Finally he entered a bar and he was asking around, and there was a large man sitting at a bar, drinking a pint. He looked at the pictures that Crabbe had and he grunted at first."I think I may have run into those blokes a few weeks ago or so. Or at least some guys who look a bit like them. One of them worked at a bar, the blonde one did," he said pointed at the picture of Draco Malfoy. "That other one, that one with the messy black hair, I heard he's a right nutter he is. Apparently he killed someone, and they say people thinks he can talk to snakes. That's what I heard anyway."Crabbe smiled broadly at hearing the news from the gentleman. "Thank you for your time, I'm sure those are the two I'm looking for." He then tossed him a couple of gold galleons.The man looked at the gold coins, and thought they looked quite odd, not recognising the currency. He shrugged his shoulders and pocketed them, figuring that he could probably get something decent for them at a nearby pawn shop.Crabbe then asked where the bar was located that the blonde man worked at. The man told him the name of the bar, and even gave him the address. This time Crabbe gives him a ten pound note before leaving.The man called after him, to thank him. "You never told me you name, so I could thank you properly!"Crabbe stopped and turned, and then he looked around, and when he felt no one was paying attention he quickly cast an obliviate spell. Then he turned and walked out of the pub.~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~DMLE headquartersGawain Robards was not a happy man. As head of the DMLE since the new administration had been installed in June, his job had not been an easy one. The war had ended months ago, but there were still various battles being fought, both literally and figuratively. Supposedly the Death Eaters that had survived the Battle of Hogwarts had all been rounded up once the dust and rubble had settled. The problem was that there were now rumours that there were various survivors that had managed to evade being captured in the early morning hours after Potter had somehow managed to defeat the Dark Lord. And Robards had just finished with a meeting with the interim Minister for Magic and it was not a pleasant one.The Head of the DMLE's thoughts were all along the same bent: Who would have known that Minister Shacklebolt was friends with that brat Potter? Hell, the kid never even finished school, and considering all of the reports that came out of the ministry over the previous several years the kid was probably half crazy. Now he had all but disappeared. And there was information that some of the rogue Death Eaters may be after him. Robards sat back in his chair. He knew that there wasn't much he could do about this situation. He didn't know this Harry Potter, other than the stories that were being told about him, and he was sure that most of it was pure exaggeration or just the imaginations of school girls run wild. But he was still the hero of the entire wizarding world, times two now, and if something happened to the lad while he was the head of the DMLE, it would be his head that was going to roll.Well, at least the order from the minister was clear, he needed to do anything to make sure that Potter was safe. So, if that meant that the two recently apprehended individuals in the holding cell needed to be questioned again, and perhaps with a little stronger questioning about just what they were after, then so be it. Gawain Robards wasn't about to let those two punk Death Eater wannabes hold on to any information that might prove to be useful.He called on two of his more experienced Aurors to get the job done. "Smythe, Gobstone, get in here now," he yelled down the hall. "I want you to go down to the holding cells, and I want you to speak with those individuals who were recently apprehended. The Minister for Magic is concerned about the rumours of Death Eaters being on the loose and being after Potter. So, if there is any chance that those two have any information that they haven't given us, then it is up to you to make sure that they aren't withholding anything from us. Have I made myself clear?"Auror Smythe shifted on his feet and glanced slightly at Gobstone to his right, "If I understand you correctly, then we are to be absolutely certain that there isn't any information they haven't shared with us?""I do believe that is what I said, Smythe," snapped Robards.Auror Gobstone nodded his head, "No questions asked about how we get the information then?"Robards raised an eyebrow as he sneered at the Auror. "All I want to know is what those two Death Munchers know. Do they know anything about Potter? Do they know anything about plans to get Potter? The minister wants answers and I don't plan on disappointing the minister. Do you?""No sir," they responded in unison.~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Susan Bones had been away from the magical world for some time, but she had been in regular contact with her best friend Hannah Abbot. She had received post from Hannah asking her to come visit for a couple of days, and Susan had managed a couple of days off from her job as a waitress so she was able to get away to visit her. It wasn't hard to get over to the Leaky Cauldron and then from there to make a simple trip via floo to Hannah's parent's house where they would be getting together.They hugged each other upon finally seeing each other. They put Susan's things away in Hannah's room, where the extra bed was already made up and ready for, as it always was when they were younger. Then they went down to the gardens where there was a table in the shade. Hannah asked the house elf to bring them some drinks in a few minutes, and then a light lunch a little later after that.Once they were alone, Hannah hugged her friend again. "You won't believe what's been happening since you left! Neville, he's like a different person. He asked me out shortly after the battle, and he's almost completed his mastery in herbology already. No one has ever completed their mastery so quickly! I overheard Professor Sprout telling another professor that she can now plan on retiring within the next few years and leave everything at Hogwarts to Neville!"Susan was amazed by what Hannah had to say. "That is amazing. But if he is doing so much work, how does he have time for you?""Oh, he makes sure he has time to see me everyday, and he is just so sweet," Hannah added. "Who knew that Neville would grow up to be such a great guy? The way he took charge last year to protect everyone, the way he helped in the final battle, and now.""He sure seems to have become a special guy," agreed Susan."So, Susan," commented Hannah, "you've been kind of evasive in your letters about what you've been up to since you went all muggle on us."Susan started to blush. "Well, I can't believe that I've been spending so much time with Harry Potter.""What? You've been living in muggle London for months, how could you be spending time with Potter?""But so has Harry," said Susan shyly."Wait a minute, back up, start at the beginning," demanded Hannah."It started back in the end of July,"explained Susan, "I was feeling homesick for the magical world, I was standing across from the entrance to the Leaky Cauldron, on the muggle side, and who comes up from behind, but Harry bloody Potter.""No!" exclaimed Hannah."Yes, silly," argued Susan with a girlish laugh, "why else would I be telling you this?""Go on," prodded Hannah."Well, we end up getting lunch, and then he asks if I know my way around London, so we take one of those muggle tour bus trips around the city," continued Susan."How ridiculous," commented Hannah."It was grand fun," recalled Susan.Hannah asked, "What's he really like?""He's charming and sweet and unlike anything YOU ever accused him of being back in school," stated Susan."That's so unfair," said Hannah with a pout."No," argued Susan, "you were so unfair."Ignoring her friend's comment, Hannah pushed for more information, "So then what?""Then we would go to the park or to a movie, or to museums and such," continued Susan with her explanation.Hannah was amazed that her friend had met up with Harry Potter of all people in muggle London of all places. "So, how often do you two get together?""Once or twice a week," Susan answered. "He works as a bartender, as does Draco."Hannah was taken back by the last comment. "What? Who? Are you talking about Malfoy?""Yeah, he's sharing an apartment with Draco Malfoy," Susan stated as thought it was as expected as the sun rising in the morning.Hannah gaped at her friend, "Now you've got to be pulling my leg!""I didn't believe it at first," stated Susan, clearly understanding the disbelief, "but I even stopped by their flat a couple of times, and it's true. It's really weird, it's like they're friends now or something."Hannah shook her head as she tried to grasp this new idea, "That makes no sense at all.""Apparently they both wanted to get away from magic for a while," continued Susan, "but Draco had no idea how to even begin to do it, and the only one he dared ask was Harry.""His saving people thing," said Hannah softly.Susan now asked in surprise, "What?"Hannah smiled as she realised there was something she knew about Potter that Susan apparently didn't know. "Granger used to say something about that back in school. Potter has this saving people thing, so if Malfoy said he needed help, Potter would be gullible enough to help.""Or nice enough to help," added Susan with a smile."Oh my, Merlin's beard," said Hannah as she put a hand to her mouth, "you've fallen for him, haven't you?""Have not," said Susan in denial."Oh, yes you have," accused Hannah, "you two are dating aren't you? Why didn't you say anything?""We are not dating!" she insisted.Hannah glared at her friend, "Why are you holding out on me? We're best friends!""We're not dating," protested Susan. "I think Harry's too shy to ask me to date. You remember the stories about the Yule Ball, and the fiasco of his trying to date Cho Chang."Hannah thought about it for a minute, "Oh, yeah. But he's really into you, isn't he?"Susan thought about it for a moment. "Well, we do get together a lot."Hannah then asked, "He's not seeing anyone else?""I don't think so," replied Susan, "he works in the evenings, but so do I, and we get together some I the afternoons. I know he occasionally hears from Granger, but I don't think he's actually seen her. I know he was upset that she came by at least once when we were out, I think it was when we were at the zoo."Hannah became more hopeful for her friend. "Does he tell you he likes you?"Susan considered her friend's question. "He seems to like spending time with me."Hannah deflected the response, "Potter's nice to everyone, you've got to figure out if he likes you likes you."Susan stared at her best friend, "You sound like a little school girl."Hannah huffed, "This is Harry Potter we're talking about here, not just some average wizard off the street.""I know who it is." Susan paused for a while. "We do have a lot in common.""Of course you do," agreed Hannah, "you both do magic, yore both cute, you're a girl, he's a boy, you're prefect together, so whats the hold up?""You're impossible," laughed Susan."You're single, and you should be dating Potter," said Hannah, "and we need to make sure that he knows that…if that's what you want to do, that is."~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Walther Crabbe found the bar he was looking for. As long as the information that he received was accurate, then it was well worth the money he paid, although no amount of money would bring back his son Vincent. The night air was warm for late August. "Pity that," thought Walther, "as the old goblin proverb states that revenge is a dish that is best served cold. Perhaps I should cast a freezing charm on them before I'm finished with the two blood traitors." That thought started to cheer him up slightly.Crabbe made a cursory stop in the front of the bar, and he quickly ascertained that his source was indeed correct. In fact, both Malfoy and Potter were working behind the bar. Crabbe couldn't help himself as he shook his head, realising how far those two families must have fallen that their would be heirs had taken menial jobs in the muggle world. He told himself he would be doing the magical world a favour by taking out these two for betraying their kind. However, he knew he would need to wait. It wouldn't do to start something right now with a crowded bar. No, he realized it would be best to bide his time, wait until the muggles went home, wait until the bar closed.So Crabbe left the bar, certain that he wasn't noticed by either of his targets while they seemed to happily wait on their muggle customers. He scouted out the area and he found an alleyway next to the bar that would most likely be the area that the two would leave once they were done working. He told himself that he could be patient just a little longer, as he had waited this long since the Desecration of the Pure-Blood Way, another couple of hours wouldn't hurt, especially if it would bring about the revenge which he had been planning for so long.By 2 AM, the bar was finally closed and the last of the customers had finally left. Crabbe started to pace back and forth on the opposite side of the street. He could see that the lights were being turned off inside and that the shadows of the last few employees were making their way towards the employee entrance in the alleyway. Sticking to the shadows, Walther Crabbe moved to the entrance of alley and drew his wand. As his anticipation grew he didn't count on his wand hand beginning to shake, and his first blasting hex sailed wide and missed both Malfoy and Potter and caused a stack of crates to explode.Harry potter was the first to move. He dove to his left and came up with his want in his right hand, having it handy in a holster hidden in his sleeve. Harry quickly discerned a figure cast in a silhouette from the street light across the road and he began to cast overpowered stunners.Draco was a little slower to action but he soon had his wand in hand, removing it from a holster strapped to his right leg. He started casting blasting hexes at the unknown assailant.Meanwhile, Crabbe's aim was becoming steadier as Harry had to hide behind a dumpster and Draco dove behind the corner of the building so as not to get blasted.The magical battle lasted only a few minutes before Crabbe was brought down by a series of blasting hexes as Harry had reverted to using those instead of the stunners, recalling the lessons he had learned during the war. Cautiously he and Draco approached their fallen attacker, worried that he might not have been acting alone. The few other employees who were leaving the bar with them were hesitant to come out into the alley after witnessing the spells being cast back and forth, and wondering just what was going on and just who James and Andrew really were.Within five minutes a team of Aurors arrived, ordering Harry and Draco to stand down and drop their wands. Immediately they dropped their wands and did as they were told.Draco spoke up first. "Don't you know who that is? That's the bloody Boy-Who-Lived. You better be damned sure you know what you're doing if you think you're about to take into custody Harry f'in' Potter!"The Aurors hesitated for a moment and turned to Harry. One of them spoke up, "Is that true, are you Potter?"Harry sighed. "I have a disillusionment charm to hide the scar. You should be able to tell though."The Auror captain stepped forth and scanned Harry. "Well, I'll be. Sorry about this Mr. Potter." He turned to the others with him. "Check out the one lying down over there."A moment later one of the Aurors called back, "He's alive, although just barely. Might make it if we get him to St. Mungo's immediately, but not sure that'll do any good.""Check his left arm," barked the captain.The junior Auror quickly pulled back the man's sleeve. "There's a faded Mark, sir.""Do we have an ID on the man?" called out the captain.After another minute the junior Auror replied, "It seems to be Walther Crabbe, sir. He's been missing since the Battle at Hogwarts sir."The captain barked out some orders. "Get Crabbe to St. Mungo's. Johnson, call for an obliviator squad and get them here pronto. The rest of you start cleaning up this mess." Then he turned to Harry and Draco. "I'm going to have to ask you two to come with me, for questioning. Routine stuff, we'll need to complete some paperwork about this. I presume Crabbe started this by attacking you?"Harry answered first, "Yes, we were just coming out of the bar, into the alley back there when he started to cast spells at us. His first spell went wide, which allowed us a chance to draw our wands and defend ourselves."The captain nodded, "Sounds like this will be routine. We had heard that someone was after Malfoy here, and rumours that some Death Eaters had managed to escape capture and maybe after you too, Potter. So I think this paperwork is merely a formality. If you don't mind, I'll just have you apparate back to the DMLE offices with me."





--------




Death Eaters and NeanderthalsHarry and Draco were detained briefly at the DMLE headquarters. The Auror Captain, Joseph Bagley, had the wands examined and returned to the two young men rather quickly. Draco was permitted to leave but then Harry was asked to speak with the captain privately.As soon as the door to the office was close, Harry asked, "Is there a problem, Captain Bagley?""Perhaps there is, but not in the way that you think, Mr. Potter," replied the Auror. "Or should I say Lord Potter. The wands checked out fine, nothing but stunners, and some strong ones at that and some blasting hexes. I assume you must have had some training with old Mad-Eye before he snuffed it. Compared to what we found on Crabbe's wand, you're cleared to go."Harry nodded his understanding, but then asked again, "Then why am I still here?""There's another issue I thought you should know about," added the Auror captain with a sigh. "It seems that there may be more than just Crabbe after either you or your friend. We have a couple more former Death Eaters in a holding cell. Still trying to get information out of them. We're still not sure if there are others out there, and if there are, how they know how to find you. Hell, my staff didn't know how to find you. We just showed up at a location of magic use.""That's been my goal," explained Harry. "I've been trying to stay out of the limelight, if you know what I mean.""Well, until early this morning," acknowledged the Auror, "I'd say you've been doing a smashing job of it. I don't think I can keep something like this out of the papers though."Harry raised an eyebrow in an unspoken question of why not.Bagley explained further, "Don't think Crabbe is going to pull through. The blighter is probably dead already. That's not something we can or will even try to cover up. The current Minister for Magic doesn't work that way. The story will break soon enough that a Death Eater escaped capture, and give everyone in the current ministry a black eye. They'll probably play you up as a martyr in that the guy came after you. But once again, you came out on top. Then who knows what kind of spin they'll put on your hiding away from everyone for the past few months.""I don't want or need any publicity," said Harry, shaking his head at the thought."I figured as much," commented Bagley, "which is why I wanted to give you warning, not just about the two detainees, but about the probable news story.""Thanks," replied Harry, "I think."Bagley stood up, shook Harry's hand and led him out of his office. "Is there anyway to contact you if we need to? I presume with the way you've been laying low you've managed to isolate yourself from the owl post.""Send me a message through Gringotts," answered Harry. "They'll know how to reach me."~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Harry arrived back at his flat, exhausted from being up all night and having been in a magical fight for the first time since the Battle of Hogwarts. The sun was rising and he realised that he was not about to get any sleep. He slumped down onto a chair as he considered that he was supposed to be going to a museum with Susan later this morning.Draco apparently had returned and gone straight to bed. "Lucky him," thought Harry.After resting for a while, thinking about why there were two other Death Eaters in custody and the ramifications of Crabbe getting himself killed by attacking them last night, Harry decided to get up and make himself busy by doing some chores around the apartment and fixing himself some breakfast.Several hours later, it was time to meet up with Susan. While he was looking forward to it, he was already tired. Harry shook his head as he realised it was going to be a very long day.Harry arrived at her apartment at the planned time for them to meet to head to the museum. Susan immediately could tell that something was wrong as Harry stepped through the door. "Harry, you look exhausted and it's only mid morning," she stated with concern in her voice. "Is something wrong?"Harry smiled at seeing Susan. "Wrong? No, not at all, I just didn't get any sleep last night. Maybe it would be better to just go to a park today instead of to a museum with how tired I feel, if that would be fine with you."Susan still looked worried. "Of course that's fine with me, silly. We can head over to Hyde Park again, that was so pretty and so relaxing." As they left to head to the park Susan hoped that she would actually hear the real story as to why he was so tired.~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Hermione Granger was elated. She had received notification that she had been accepted to attend university and she would be able to start working towards a law degree. Once she obtained that she could then start work on representing the rights of other magical creatures. The first person she wanted to share her news with was Harry, so she headed straight to his flat.Upon arriving there, she knocked on the door, and a voice called out telling her that the door was unlocked. She let herself in and found that Draco was standing in the kitchen.Hermione was slightly irritated to see the blonde prat, as she referred to him internally, "Is Harry around?"Draco replied cordially, "He's out, again.""I can see that," she observed looking around the apartment, "where now?"Draco rubbed his forehead slightly, then answered, "Well, after the Aurors took him in for questioning, I think he had another date for today."Hermione's jaw dropped. "Wait, the Aurors? What Aurors?"Draco shook his head at her response. "Aurors, as in magical police. Come on Granger, you're supposed to be the smart one. I didn't think a little time away like a trip to Australia would cause you to forget everything you learned."Hermione did not find any amusement in his attempt at humour at her expense. "I know what Aurors are you git. Why would Aurors need to question Harry?"Draco continued to give less than complete answers. "Probably something to do with taking out Crabbe."Hermione continued to be perplexed by Draco's responses. "But Crabbe's dead, he died in the Room of Requirement, which as I recall, Harry saved you that night when he grabbed you and pulled you onto his broom."Draco shook his head in bewilderment at how slow she was at figuring this out. "No, not the stupid goon I used to use as muscle, his father. Blamed me for his son's death apparently. Dear old dad was after me, I gather. Actually managed to track us down to the pub. He tried to ambush us in the alley, but we managed to hold our own."Hermione gasped at the thought of another magical battle. "Is he…is Crabbe?"Draco finished her question for her. "Is he dead? Possibly, not sure, but from what I could tell he wasn't in good shape. Remind me not to piss off Harry, one of his reducto curses can be quite vicious, especially if its well placed."Hermione shivered at the thought. "Why does everything seem to revolve around Harry?"Draco replied with a question of his own. "What's all this about poor Harry? Crabbe was after me! No sympathy for me now? Oh, that's right, I'm just the bigoted Slytherin who called you a mud-blood once."Hermione now glared at him. "You called me that a lot more than once."Draco sniffed, "I apologised to you the last time you stopped by."Hermione remembered her last visit when Harry wasn't present and how uncomfortable she felt. "Yes, you did," she conceded."How about I try to make it up to you," he offered.Hermione was still surprised, but remained silent."Over dinner," he added.Hermione was shocked, "What?!"Draco was taken aback by her response. "Am I that loathsome to you that you would say no?"Hermione did not back down in her defensiveness. "I don't think that would be a good idea."Draco pressed for more of an explanation, "And why is that?"Hermione searched for an answer and tried to find a logical one. Finally in an emotional outburst she yelled at him, "Because I hate you!"Draco simply raised an eyebrow at her.Hermione was hiding her face in her hands as she was crying. Draco had a mask of indifference that he maintained in her presence."I suppose I deserve that," he began in response to her outburst. "Many years of speaking down to you, trying to humiliate you, calling you names. Yes, that would easily make you hate me. My aunt torturing you, well that I had no control over. The snatchers taking you to my father's house, again, I had no control over that either. So, I am guilty of years of abuse of you as a person, much of which I can try and blame on the lies of pure-blood supremacy that my family has been teaching for generations."Hermione was avoiding looking at Draco until she heard the last of his excuse. Then her head snapped around. "Excuse me, did you just say the lies of pure-blood supremacy.""Yes, I do believe those were my words," he replied as he was turning to walk away towards his room.Hermione was stunned by what she heard him say, and she felt she could hardly believe him. "Then you're not just saying that for my benefit."Draco had stopped and was now facing her again. "I may be a Slytherin, from the house of cunning, but I was definitely sincere with what I just said. Moving on, Harry's not here, so you might as well leave." With that he turned and went back into his room.Hermione stood there for a moment, not sure what to think. She wondered if she was being fair with Malfoy. Was he being genuine in his apology? But he had been abusive to her for years, she reasoned with herself. But he was just explaining to her that he was trying to fight generations of ingrained pure-blood bigotry. She wondered what had she just done. She turned and left the flat.She stood alone just outside of the apartment as she felt she needed to give Draco some space. She had no idea when Harry was going to get back from his date. As she thought about it, she was actually kind of surprised that he was dating some muggle woman, but then again, with the way things had been going this summer, she probably shouldn't be surprised by anything. She noticed that rain clouds were starting to roll in and the sky had turned grey. She decided to try and catch up with her friend another day, and send him a note via the regular mail, and she started to make her way back to her own apartment as the rain started to fall.~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~DMLE Holding CellsAuror Captain Bagley had ventured over to the holding cells."So, Smythe, Gobstone", he called out, "do you have any more information from these two?"Gobstone didn't respond, he simply looked to Smythe.Smythe stared at Bagley as he internally debated whether to answer the Auror captain."I could haul you into Robards office," stated Bagley, "which he might not be too happy about, considering he has been here for a while already, going over my report on the attack against Potter that occurred in the wee hours of this morning, or you could do the smart thing and share with me what you have already learned.""It seems these two were sent to gather information on the whereabouts of Potter, sir," answered Smythe. "They were pretty banged up when they were caught. It actually wasn't that hard to get information out of them, sir.""Who sent them to track down Potter?" asked Bagley."It's all in my report, sir," added Smythe."Does it look like I'm currently reading your bloody report?" barked Bagley."No sir, they mentioned something about someone they called the Shadow Lord," said Smythe."There, that wasn't too hard, now was it," stated Bagley as he turned and left.As the Auror captain walked away Gobstone finally spoke up. "Why does he remind me so much of Mad-Eye Moody?""I think Mad-Eye was his uncle or something," remarked Smythe.~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Harry and Susan had arrived at Hyde Park, where they had been before earlier in the summer. But they noted that the sky was turning grey, so they decided to spend the rest of their morning at the Lido cafe just catching up. Susan was worried when she heard what had happened the night before, when Harry finally told her about the attack in the alley and having to speak with the Aurors. He reassured her that the DMLE understood that their actions were purely in self defence and that neither he nor Draco would be in any trouble."That's not what I was worried about silly," she said as he finished his story."Well, I don't know what else there is to worry about," added Harry, "the Aurors already sent in teams to obliviate any muggles who may have witnessed any magic. They had other teams who came by to fix anything that was damaged.""Harry, that's still not what I'm talking about," commented Susan.Harry shifted a little in his seat as he stared at his cup of tea. Then he looked back as Susan. "You don't need to worry about me, Sue."Susan was slightly surprised at the familiarity of his calling her Sue, only her Aunt Amelia ever really called her Sue. "Why can't I worry about you?""I've survived an encounter with a sixty foot basilisk when I was only twelve, I've faced down Voldemort six times," he explained, "I think I can handle one former Death Eater with a grudge."Susan huffed, and then she asked him, "When was the last time you used magic?"Harry rolled his eyes. "Last night, obviously."Susan shook her head. "Before last night, and I mean really used magic."Harry narrowed his eyes at her as he responded with a question, "What difference does it make?"Susan sighed audibly. "It makes all the difference. When you faced Voldemort, at least the last time, you had been practicing, you were prepared. You've been living among muggles, you're not using magic here Harry. What if a spell doesn't work right all of a sudden? What if you missed with a spell?"Harry relaxed slightly. "It won't happen. It can't happen."She rolled her eyes. "Can you be so sure?"Harry responded almost flippantly. "I have to be, particularly if someone has to be watching Draco's back."Susan was getting frustrated. "Why?"Harry responded with another question. "Why what?"Susan explained her question more clearly, "Why do you always have to have this saving people thing?"Harry puzzled over the question. "Is it so bad?"Susan felt like screaming at his responses. "It will be if it gets you killed!"Harry shrugged. "I kind of thought risking things for others is what people do, after all, it's my earliest memory, it's what my parents did for me."Susan couldn't stop the tears from forming in her eyes. "Oh my, Harry, I'm sorry, I didn't mean to bring that up.""You didn't Sue, you were bringing up my 'saving people thing' which Hermione used to complain about. Personally, I never understood what the problem was," he began in his response, hoping to ease her concerns. "But I actually took the time to think about it this summer. You know, with not having a madman after me trying to kill me, life can be kind of peaceful. And I actually have time to rest and enjoy things and think about things. Things like where did this saving people thing come from. I think it comes from my mum and my dad and what they did for me. So, honestly, I'm not going to fight it."Susan reached out and took his hand and squeezed it. "Well, when you put it like that, it's really kind of sweet and meaningful.""Who knew," commented Harry"Who knew what?" Wondered Susan"That 'Harry Potter' could be so deep and caring," he added with a laugh.Susan smiled, "Anyone who actually took the time to get to know you."Harry smiled back, "Perhaps, its just that so few actually bother to do just that."The rain started to come down harder. "Well, this looks like this day is a wash out," quipped Harry. "I was hoping that we could have had another nice day at the park.""Maybe we can try again tomorrow, but I have an early shift," commented Susan."Then maybe we just make an early start to the day," added Harry.Susan smiled, "That sounds fine to me. How about we do something different tomorrow?"Harry raised an eyebrow in response."Why don't I come by your flat and then we can head to someplace from there?" suggested Susan.Harry didn't need to think long on the suggestion. "Sure, that works for me," he readily agreed.Harry then wandlessly conjured an umbrella.Susan was startled by his actions. "How did you do that?"Harry smirked at her. "Perhaps I'm not so rusty with using my magic as you thought." He then held up the umbrella and led her on her way back to her apartment.Harry eventually arrived home at his apartment, and he was surprised that no one was home. He had assumed that Draco would have been there, but then again maybe he had plans that he was unaware of. Harry stopped by Draco's bedroom and noticed that the door was left slightly open. He pushed it open slightly and peaked inside. He was not expecting to find the scene in front of him. Someone had clearly taken out a lot of frustration within that room as very little was left in one piece.Harry called for his house elf, Kreacher.With a slight pop, the old house elf arrived. "What does master Harry request of old Kreacher? Does Master Harry tire of the blonde ferret?""No, Kreacher," answered Harry, "but if you could fix the mess in the blonde ferret's room, that would be a great help. Oh, and has anyone else tried to beak into Grimmauld Place?""Two more of the old Snake Followers have made attempts to make their way into the house in the past couple of weeks," replied the old elf.Harry was a little surprised to hear this. "And what became of them, Kreacher?"Kreacher seemed to bounce a little as he answered. "Master Harry gave me permission to deal with them."Harry grew a little concerned at the excitement he noted on his house elf's face. "Now Kreacher, what were the rules?"The house elf frowned slightly, "No killing."Harry was a little relieved to hear the first one recited. "Yes, that was rule number one.""No blood on the floors or the walls," croaked the elf."Yes," replied Harry, "that's good, Kreacher.""No disturbing the neighbours," continued the elf."Yes," acknowledged Harry, "and do you remember the other rules?"Kreacher seemed a little frustrated at being quizzed by Harry. "No doing anything that could get Master Harry in trouble with the ministry."Harry was quite pleased with his elf. "Very good, Kreacher. Now, please tell me, what exactly did you do?"Kreacher seemed to brighten as he responded, "I left them without their wands in the middle of the muggle zoo that you told me about."Harry frowned slightly, "That doesn't sound so bad, Kreacher."Kreacher smirked, if a house elf's expression could be described as smirking, "I think they were next to the large striped cat creatures."Harry looked at Kreacher. "I didn't read about that in the papers or hear about it in the news.""I wouldn't know anything about the muggle news, Master Harry, sir," stated the house elf."Well, Kreacher," continued Harry, "are you sure that they were Death Eaters?""They did say they were trying to capture you and the blonde ferret brat," explained Kreacher, "and they would have their revenge for their master."Harry had to admit that did make them sound like they were Death Eaters. "Did you get their names?"Kreacher shook his head. "No, but the Aurors who picked them up after they were alerted by the magic released by the breaking of their wands outside of the cage may have something to do with it. And I may have given them information about what they were doing immediately before they appeared in the zoo."Harry sat down in a chair. Harry realized that these two were probably the same ones that Auror Captain Bagley was referring to earlier int he day. And if the DMLE had already captured those two, and they did not reveal anything about Crabbe's plan, then they must have been working separately. Harry pondered how many others may be working on coming after either himself or Draco.~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~DMLE HeadquartersShacklebolt was sitting in his office listening to the report from the head of the DMLE. He was not pleased with the report that Gawain Robards had been recounting to him.Shacklebolt wanted answers. "What the hell was Crabbe doing there? How did he find them if we had no idea where Potter was?"Robards was not enjoying this meeting at all. "We don't know sir, but after we finished our investigation, Potter left. Malfoy's wand was checked out at as well. He was as much a target as Potter was, or so it seems."The minister was still not happy. "What's the connection between Crabbe and the two down in the holding cell?"Robards still had little to go on. "Nothing that we can tell, other than the all seem to have their own vendetta against both Potter and Malfoy, and their connection through the Dark Lord. And we do have the report of the interrogation of the two, and they mentioned someone whom they called the Shadow Lord as putting them up to what they were doing."This information definitely got Shacklebolt's attention. "What else do we know about this Shadow Lord? Was Crabbe working for him as well?""We know nothing further about this Shadow Lord, nothing else references such an individual before this event. And we don't know if he has a connection to the Dark Lord," explained Robards.Shacklebolt sighed in frustration, as he knew all too well that the early part of an investigation was crucial but all too often there was little information to go on. "Do either of Potter or Malfoy know about what's going on, about this vendetta? Is that why they're hiding out together?"Robards felt that he at least had some information. "As near as we can tell, Malfoy is hiding out from the Death Eaters, Potter is just avoiding us."Again Kingsley frowned. "Potter's avoiding the DMLE or the Aurors? Is he hiding something?" Kingsley was increasingly frustrated, as he felt like he used to know Harry."No sir," Robards tried to explain, "he's avoiding witches and wizards in general. That's what we've learned from his friends sir, from Weasley and Longbottom. He just up and left sir."Shacklebolt sighed. "Then why is he staying with Malfoy?""We're still looking into that," answered Robards, "so far we don't have a clue. Do you want us to investigate him sir?""Harry Potter? No! Let me see if there is anything I can turn up on my own," stated the minister. "I'll let you know if I find out anything useful, after all, I was an Auror, and I do know Harry. And I know some of his friends. Now, what do you know about this Shadow Lord?"Robards frowned, "As I said earlier, that was the first reference we have heard of him."Shacklebolt shared in his frustration. "Well, see that your staff finds out everything they can about this whole situation. I'd also tell you to keep this quiet, but I doubt that we can do that with Crabbe's death. I did hear correctly that he died at St. Mungo's."Robards acknowledged that indeed Crabbe had succumbed to his wounds and that the Daily Prophet most likely already is preparing a story.Shacklebolt nodded, "Well, like I said, let me see what I can find out about Harry. You and your team find out you can about the Shadow Lord, then find him, and stop him, whatever he is trying to do."~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Harry went home after dropping off Susan at her flat and actually rested and slept for part of the afternoon. He knew that he had had plans to meet up with Daphne at a club later, so he figured he needed to rest up. He wanted to put the whole ordeal of the night before behind him and figured the best way to do that would be to keep going about doing things that he had already planned. Besides, Crabbe was dealt with, and the two individuals who had tried to break into Grimmauld place were already in DMLE custody. What else did he have to worry about? He figured that going out dancing would be a great way to take his mind off of everything.Harry arrived at the club a bit later than he had expected, as he had slept longer than he had anticipated when he took a kip. Harry looked around the club for a bit as he initially wasn't able to locate Daphne. After a few minutes, he noted she was dancing with some other guys, so Harry decided to head out onto the dance floor and join her. However, as he approached her, some of the guys near her tried to scare him off."Hey bud, she's busy, she's already with someone, so leave," grumbled a large and stocky young man with short cut hair.Another similarly built individual came up and stood next to the first one and crossed his arms on his chest. "In other words, get lost."As Harry got closer, he also noticed that Daphne seemed to be very amorous towards the guy she was dancing with and very clingy towards the others in general. Clearly something was definitely not quite right with the situation. Harry didn't know exactly what happened, but he quickly surmised that someone, probably the guy she was clinging to and the one he wasn't be allowed to get close to, had slipped her some sort of muggle drug, which was causing these effects. Harry also quickly wondered if muggle based drugs might have different effects on magical based people.Harry decided to ignore the two neanderthals in front of him. "Excuse me," he tried to sound polite, and forceful, "but that is my friend over there and I did come here to meet up with her and to dance with her, so if you wouldn't mind just stepping aside…""You must be stupid, or deaf," grumbled Neanderthal one, "but we do mind, and we already told you to get lost. I guess we'll just have to explain this to you a little more clearly."He then proceeded to grab Harry by the shoulders and carry him through the crowds out back. No one in the club seemed to care, and everyone seemed to react as though this was a common occurrence. Harry's initial reaction was to show Neanderthal a look of fear as he was lifted up and carried away. Once they made it to the back alley. The large man made a big goofy grin as he drew his hand back to punch Harry. Harry simply smiled as cast a wandless 'stupefy' spell. Harry thought to himself as the large man collapsed in the alley, "Poor guy never knew what hit him."Harry walked around to the front of the club. The bouncer recognised Harry as someone who had already been inside and assumed that Harry must have just stepped outside for some fresh air, and waved him along inside. Harry smiled at the man and returned to the club. Once again he made his way back to the dance floor and encountered the goons who were protecting the man who was dancing with the obviously (to Harry at least) drugged Daphne. Upon seeing Harry return, unharmed and by himself, the others were quite startled. The man who was with Daphne took noticed and made a nod with his head towards Harry.This time Neanderthal two showed up accompanied by another guy who Harry had seen with the apparent leader's entourage. "I don't know what you did with Jimmy, but we'll be sure to take care of you properly, this time."The two side kicks grabbed him, one on either side, and dragged him out back. They arrived in the alley and found "Jimmy" lying there unconscious.Neanderthal two, who was still apparently unnamed, punched Harry in the gut. (Harry was grateful he was still holding him with the other hand as he assumed that made the punch hit a little less hard.) "Okay, smarts, what did you do to Jimmy here?" demanded the man who had just punched him.Harry was trying to get his breath back as he answered, "I just said one thing to him."The big man replied, "What was that?"Harry smirked, "I told him he was stupid to mess with me."The two laughed at him. "You think you're funny? A little comedian, huh?"Harry noticed a large trash bin behind them. He then called out, "Accio dumpster."Before they knew anything, the two thugs were run over by an errant trash dumpster. Harry held his hands up and as the dumpster collided into the thugs and hit his hands it came to a stop. Harry braced himself and was thrown slightly backwards. He looked down at the now two more unconscious thugs. "Now that had to hurt," Harry thought to himself. He also considered that as he was using wandless magic he probably hadn't alerted the DMLE to anything that was happening here at the club.Returning once again to the club, the bouncer looked at him as he walked in, "You all right mate?"Harry smiled, "Sure, I'm fine, never better."Harry walked in and goes up to Daphne who is holding on the arm of the leader of the group that had drugged her."Hiya Harry," she slurred outHarry noticed that her dress was pulled away revealing the sides of her breasts, and that many men nearby were leering at her.Harry then walked up to the man who was holding her. "Now, how many more of your flunkies do you have left? I'm getting tired of this. If you have any more, I'll just take them all out back right now and be done with it, or I'll just leave now with my friend and I'll leave you in one piece."The guy looked at Daphne and then he looked at Harry. He looked him up and down and noticed there wasn't a scratch, a bruise, a mark, and his clothes weren't even a mess. Yet his three men, his best enforcers were nowhere to be seen. Realising that this was not a battle that he was about to win, or at least not easily, he quickly yielded."Here, take your slut," he said. "She's probably just a useless skank with who knows what for diseases."He then shoved Daphne across the floor towards Harry. Harry caught her in his arms.Daphne squealed as Harry caught her before she crashed into the floor."Come on Daph," said Harry gently, "we need to go."Daphne was clearly not in her usual mind, "Where are we going?""We're heading out of here," he said simply, guiding her towards the exit."But I want to dance," she whined."Not anymore tonight," he said, "you've had too much fun already.""You're no fun," she pouted.Harry knew this would be hard until she was sober, "I can be loads of fun, but you're not really having any fun.""They promised me lots of fun," she protested."I'm sure they did," said Harry, trying to hide his anger.Daphne giggled, "Will you promise me fun?""I promise you that you'll be so happy with me that you will thank me for this," said Harry, then under his breath he added, "eventually."Once they left the club, Harry wasn't sure of what else to do, so he decided the best decision was to bring her back to his apartment. Arriving there, with Daphne who was obviously under the influence of some substance, made more than a little bit of noise as they entered the flat.Draco raised an eyebrow."Now that's not what I ever expected," he stated, "you getting Greengrass drunk and then bringing her back here for a shag.""Shut the hell up, Malfoy," snapped, Harry. "Some other people drugged her, and then they were trying to take advantage of her. When I tried to rescue her, they tried to beat me up. So, I ended up having to use some wandless magic in an alley behind the club, and then I managed to get Daphne away from those miscreants, and I couldn't figure out anything else to do with her, so I brought her back here, for her own safety.""You and your saving people thing," interjected Draco.Harry sighed heavily, "What would have had me do?"Draco shook his head, "Hey, I'm not complaining. And hopefully, when Daphne's sober, she won't be complaining either."Harry nodded in understanding, "Yeah, well now I just need to get her to bed."Draco laughed, "See, just like I said, bringing her back just to shag her.""We get to shag!" exclaimed Daphne."No one's getting shagged!" replied Harry."And that's the shame of it all," added Draco.Harry glared at Draco as he spoke to the girl he was supporting with his arm, "Now let's get you to the bed, Daphne.""Sounds wonderful," moaned Daphne.Draco laughed at Harry's predicament. Then he called out, "Bold Gryffindor golden boy couldn't take advantage of such a gift when he had the chance!"A few moments later Draco received a stinging hex for his comments.Draco called back, "What was that for?""Your stupid comments," Harry replied as he brought the still addled Daphne into his bedroom.A minute later Harry appeared in the main room of the apartment with a pillow and a blanket.Draco gave him a puzzled look, "What are you doing now?"Harry stared back at him for a moment before replying, "Sleeping on the couch, obviously.""Like I said," added Draco before he retired to his own room, "bloody noble Gryffindor."~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~AN: There have been some changes to the plot (going forward) — some are actually based on some suggestions from readers. This story started out as mostly fluff — an idea of Harry and Draco going to live in the muggle world, add a little relationship drama for Harry…but then some plot ideas were developing in the background…why did Draco want to live in the muggle world? In this story to avoid Death Eaters. That arc is now being developed, and will continue to be developed. To develop that further and to work on some of the ideas from some messages I received from readers in PMs, it has been taking some time to rework the next 6 chapters from the previous outlines, so that this will develop into more than just Harry/Susan vs. Harry/Daphne (although that will be part of this). So there will continue to be various plot lines developing, hopefully making this story more interesting, and keeping the interest of those of you who have started to read it.Dark Lord Potter is not abandoned, just delayed while this story is being worked on…as my other stories in development are similarly delayed…As always, thanks for the reviews. - X





--------




The Daily ProphetPotter Defeats Rogue Death Eater!The Boy-Who-Lived is alive and well, and as it turns out, the followers of He-Who-Was-Defeated have not given up on their attempts at revenge for their loss. Apparently outside of a muggle bar not too long ago an angry Walther Crabbe, confirmed Death Eater, who somehow evaded capture after the Battle of Hogwarts attacked our young hero. In an attempt to ambush the unsuspecting young man, Crabbe started the duel by casting several curses at him. It turns out that Potter has not lost his skills from years of playing Quidditch and he was able to skilfully avoid injury. Using a combination of stunners and blasting hexes, Potter, who was for unknown reasons in the company of another wizard who has been rumoured to have had ties with Death Eaters, the young Draco Malfoy, was able to subdue his attacker. The DMLE released a statement that the injuries that Walther Crabbe received were simply from multiple stunning hexes and minor blasting hexes, however the resulting internal damage resulted in extensive injuries which ultimately lead to his death. Despite his being transported quickly to the capable hands of the healers at St. Mungo's the medi-witches and healers were not able to save his life. A thorough investigation revealed that Crabbe was definitely a Death Eater and that he had been involved in many plots to attack and discredit Mr. Potter over the years. It was also revealed that part of his motive for attacking Mr. Potter may have been his blaming him for the death of his son, Vincent Crabbe, who was a student in Mr. Potter's year at Hogwarts and who died during the Battle of Hogwarts.It is unknown at this time why the Malfoy scion was with Mr. Potter in the early morning hours, or even why the two of them were deep in the heart of muggle London. What is known is that neither Mr. Potter nor Mr. Malfoy have hardly been seen in the magical world since shortly after the Battle of Hogwarts. Some had even feared that some evil had befallen out hero, but we are all glad to see that he is fine and even more so that he came out unscathed from this altercation in a muggle alley.Mr. Potter could not be reached for comment after the events of the other night and neither could Mr. Malfoy. We were able to speak with one of the Aurors involved in the investigation of the incident and learned that both Mr. Potter and Mr. Malfoy fully cooperated with the DMLE in their investigation after the altercation and that their wands were checked and that there was clearly no evidence that either one of them had used any dark spells. The summary of the event was that the two young wizards acted completely in self defence. The Auror who spoke to left us with this warning, if there are any other Death Eaters out there who managed to survive the Battle of Hogwarts and evade capture by the DMLE, it would be a fool's mission to go after Harry Potter, because after all, he took down He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named, then he should be able to take down any of his followers.The Shadow Lord folded the paper and tossed it to one side. "Those fools at the DMLE and the paper, they are playing right into my hands. Make everyone think that Potter is invincible, that they are all safe! No one will see me coming! They'll never be ready for what I have in store for them. It will make it all the more sweeter when I bring him and his so called friends down."His laugh was unpleasant and ended in spasms of coughing.He then ran a hand along his chin as he considered what he had just read. "So, it is true, he is also hiding among the muggles, just as I had suspected. It's such a shame that most of the wizards and witches are too foolish to read between the lines of the information that they gather and publish. Now, I just need to locate where he is, but that shouldn't be too hard, his friends will make that so easy for me." He started to laugh and cough once more."I'll need to prepare other targets as well. Longbottom won't be easy, he's too well protected behind those damned wards his grandmother put up, and she only strengthened them after what those fools did to his parents years ago. The Bones Heiress, now she would be a potentially easy target, based on the old family traditions, I'll need to be sure to look into those. The Weasleys, there are so many of them, would anyone notice if they're even targeted? Then there is the crazy Lovegood girl, and of course, the mudblood…"He then turned and looked off to one side. "Did you get all of that? We'll need to start with the easy ones, and we'll need to contact the other assets for help, eventually. Now, get me the information I need, and bring it back here, today."~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Harry Potter's Flat - the morning after he rescued Daphne GreengrassHarry had woken up and started to get himself some breakfast. Draco then woke up and entered the kitchen. He stopped and noticed that Harry was still dressed in the same clothes he had on from the night before, although his shirt was unbuttoned and he was now barefoot."Hey mate, nice pyjamas, there," he said with a laugh."Hay mate," said Harry, echoing the tone, "nice bedroom you have there. Oh, you might want to thank Kreacher at sometime, it seems that he might have fixed some things for you."Draco was about to comment about Harry's jibe and about Harry's house elf when they head a sound emanating from Harry's bedroom. The door opened and out walked a bleary eyed blonde woman, wearing a tight T-shirt that was rather revealing and a pair of male boxer shorts. She was rubbing her eyes as she was trying to gather her wits about her. Both Harry and Draco noticed Daphne stumble slightly as she stepped towards the kitchen.She moaned out through a dry voice, "Um, where the hell am I?"Harry responded first, trying to sound cheerful, "Good morning to you too…"Daphne's eyes shot opened as she looked around the room. She finally registered both Draco and Harry and then she put a hand to her mouth and gasped, "Oh Merlin's hairy, b…"Daphne never finished what she was saying as she had turned around and ran back into the bedroom from where she had emerged.Draco looked at Harry. "What was that about?"Harry shrugged, "I suppose she woke up wondering where she was, not remembering much of anything. I would guess that she then put on some clothes, grabbing whatever she could find and came out here. Now she is trying to remember what the hell happened last night or she's trying to figure out if we slept together."Draco raised an eyebrow. "This could go well or you are about to get hexed into oblivion.""I do have you as a witness," commented Harry, not taking his own eyes off of his bedroom door.Draco laughed, "Really? She knows me. I'm a Slytherin. Like my word would be good for anything."Just then there was a knock on the door. Draco commented "I might as well get that, since you look like crap as you're still wearing your clothes from last night."Draco opened the door and he was initially surprised to see Susan Bones."Hi Draco," she said warmly.Draco was stunned and now speechless and thought to himself, this is about to get really interesting.Susan frowned slightly, "I guess Harry didn't mention that I was coming over. We had plans to go to the park today, since yesterday was kind of a wash out."Draco just shook his head, still too stunned to speak.Susan thought Draco was just being a little strange, so she walked past him and into the main room of the flat. "Hi Harry," she said in greeting, and then she noted he appeared to be wearing clothes from last night.Harry looked over at her, "Oh, good morning Sue." He noticed her frown, and he tried to explain, "Sorry Sue, I'm just running behind this morning, I had a late night last night."Sue smiled, "That's okay, it's not like we're in a rush."Then Daphne came back out of the bedroom, still in Harry's T-shirt and shorts, with her hair pulled back. "I'm so sorry Harry, and thanks again so much for last night, that was really special what you did."Harry turned and looked at Daphne, and he realised she must have remembered much if not all of what happened last night.Susan Bones looked up at the new comer walking into the kitchen and her jaw just dropped at what she just heard and what she saw.Harry's brain started to kick into gear at what was just said and how it may have come across to Susan who had just walked in and witnessed all of this completely out of context.Draco realised that Harry's problems were now just magnified and he had to do all he could to keep from laughing out loud.Susan looked back and forth between Harry and Daphne.Daphne realised there was another person in the apartment and then she quickly recognised her as a classmate. "Oh, hi Susan, I didn't notice you there at first."Susan's response was icy, "Good morning Daphne. I didn't mean to intrude on anything. I was in the neighbourhood and I thought I would just say hello to Harry and Draco, but I guess I'll see them some other time."With that she turned and left the apartment.Harry stood up to follow after her and caught up with her just outside of the door of the apartment. "Susan, where are you going? What's wrong?"Susan was wiping a tear from her eye. "I guess I must have misjudged you, Harry. I thought we were friends, I was hoping we might be able to be more than friends. I didn't realise you had a shag partner already.""What are you talking about?" asked a bewildered Harry. "Wait, Daphne? Nothing happened between Daphne and me! Please, let me explain!" Harry desperately pleaded with Susan as he realised how this must have looked to her."We had plans to go to a club to go dancing. We were supposed to meet there. But I got there late. It turned out that some muggles slipped her something. Some drugs, I think. They were trying to take advantage of her. I finally was able to get her away from them. Bloody hell, I don't even know where she lives. She was in no condition to go anywhere on her own at that time, so I did the only thing I could think of and I brought her back here, and she slept in my bed, I slept on my couch. Why do you think I'm still in my clothes from last night?""But she said…" began Susan, as she let her words fade off as she considered what she was going to say… "And she's wearing your t-shirt and clothes.""Think about it Sue," Harry pleaded again. "I brought her home to my apartment. She had been dressed to go dancing. She woke up in an unfamiliar apartment. What do you think she would find to wear?"Susan shifted from one foot to another. "Couldn't she find a baggier shirt and some looser fitting pants?"Harry wasn't sure what to say as he just stared blankly at Susan who was standing there in front of him. He realised that she was pouting and holding her arms folded underneath her chest. Harry actually noticed that Susan had quite a nice chest. Susan noticed that Harry was staring."Harry, I don't think now is the appropriate time for you to stare," she said sharply. Then she quickly added, "Although, another time I might find it flattering."Harry closed his eyes and shook his head. "Sorry Sue," he quickly apologised, "you're right, I am so sorry."Susan tried hard not to smirk or to smile in triumph, "I don't know if getting together today is such a good idea."Harry opened his eyes and looked at her and he could see the hurt and the pain in her eyes. "Actually, I think we do need to get together, because I think it's obvious we need to talk about some things, such as my being blind and stupid."Susan raised an eyebrow at his admission, "Well that sounds hopeful, a guy who might be able to admit he has faults."Harry blushed slightly, "Maybe we should meet up and talk things over, maybe at the coffee shop we've been to before." He hesitated a moment, "But I think I need to sort a few things out back inside. Daphne kind of passed out when I got her here last night, I still feel like I need to make sure she gets back to her flat safely, I just need to follow it through."Susan smiled at him, "I understand, go ahead, finish your saving people thing."Harry smiled at her and gave Susan a slight hug. "How about we meet up at 10, would that be okay?"Susan looked at her watch on her wrist, "Make it 9:30 and you've got a date. Any later and I'll be gone." She recrossed her arms. "I know we're just friends, but somehow I feel like I've been cheated. Yes, I heard what you said, and yes, maybe I'm overreacting, but I'm telling you now how I feel." Before Harry could say anything more she turned and walked away.Harry watched her leave and then he looked at his own watch, and thought to himself, 'great, that leaves me less than one hour to sort things out here.' He then turned and quickly headed back inside.Harry walked up to the bar by the kitchen where Daphne was standing and drinking a glass of orange juice. As Harry walked in, Draco decided that he should probably make himself scarce and he headed back into his own room.Daphne looked up from her juice as she put the glass down on the counter."Harry, I finally remembered everything, or at least almost everything from last night," she said softly.Harry was about to say something more but she cut him off. "No, please, let me finish," she continued. "I'm really not sure what those muggle creeps did, maybe they slipped something into my drink, I don't know. I thought I was having fun, but that wasn't me, that was the effects of whatever they gave me. Something really wasn't right, for all I know, the effects were compounded because of my magic, but that doesn't matter. I just really want you to know that I really appreciate what you did for me last night."Harry was about to say something when she leaned forward, reached out with her hand and lifted his chin slightly as she began to kiss him. Quickly it turned into a full on song. Harry was about to protest, but his tired brain quickly accepted what she was doing and returned the kiss. Who knew that the Ice Princess of Slytherin was so skilled at kissing? Well, Harry Potter did now.Harry was a little out of breath and he was definitely feeling confused. The look on his faced betrayed his thoughts. Daphne stood back and noticed the look on his face."What, are you dating Bones? No wonder she was so irritated when she walked in," commented Daphne. "She must have thought we slept together last night," she added with a laugh."Yes, she did think that, and no, we're not dating," replied Harry, still with the deer in the headlights look as he couldn't get the sensation of Daphne's lips on his off of his mind.Daphne now was puzzled. "So what's the problem?"Harry shook his head slightly to try and clear his thoughts which had become muddled thanks to the beautiful blonde woman in front of him. "I think I might want to date her, and I think she might want to date me."Daphne frowned slightly, "But what if I wanted to date you?"Harry was floored by her comments. He was too stunned by her question to think of a way to respond."Think about it Potter," Daphne added.Harry's brain started to engage, "Are you serious?"Daphne smiled. "You're cute, you're chivalrous, you're pretty good with magic, you've proven you're brave, you're a hero to all of magical Britain, okay, most of magical Britain, you saved my ass last night, so why wouldn't I be?" She paused as she let her statement sink in for a moment. "Besides, as the oldest heir to a family that only has females, I need to find a guy who might allow me to have more than one child so one of them could take my last name. Most wizards would say no, you don't seem to be that type."Harry's head was spinning. "That's a little too much information after just one snog."Daphne smiled, pleased with herself for both putting all of that out there and getting such a reaction out of the famous Boy-Who-Lived. "Hey, I'm just putting it out there. Besides, you had a chance to take advantage of me, and you didn't. I know I can trust you, and frankly, that endears you to me, and as I said before, you are kind of cute. We've been hanging together on and off for a while, and honestly, I do like you. And you're even learning to dance."Harry stood there in shock. He wasn't used to girls asking him out. Especially girls as pretty, no, as sexy as Daphne Greengrass. "Daphne, I really don't know what to say. I'm about to go talk with Susan about our relationship, about her and I starting to date."Daphne frowned slightly, "I can be very patient if I need to be." She then smiled and added, "Oh, and Potter, if you repeat anything I just told you to anyone, I'll hex your bollocks off."Harry gulped. "Uh, Daphne, just for curiosity sake, what would your reaction be if I were to start dating Susan?"Daphne raised an eyebrow and smirked, "Like I said, I can be patient, and I can be persuasive, and I like challenges. But don't worry, I do consider Susan Bones a friend." Then silently she said to herself, for now at least."Harry, If you don't mind, I'll just transfigure some of your clothes into something a little more appropriate and make my way home," added Daphne before Harry could say anything further. "Besides, you have a date with Susan to get to."~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Andromeda Tonks was surprised to have the Minister for Magic show up at her door. She was quite beside herself with trying to care for her grandson."Andy, I am sorry to drop by unannounced like this," stated Kingsley, "but I didn't want to draw attention to my visit, so I had to get away from my staff and I didn't want them pestering you or anything.""Well, this is a surprise Shack," replied Andromeda, "I haven't seen you or heard from you since the funeral."Kingsley ignored the friendly jibe. "How is little Teddy?""He's doing fine," she stated, "but I'm sure you're not here just to check up on my grandson."Kingsley smiled, "I'm that transparent, am I? Actually, I was wondering, have you heard anything from his godfather?"Andromeda Tonks hesitated before answering. She was a lawyer and a darn good one. She was smart enough to know that she shouldn't reveal any information one way or another until she had a clear handle on any situation. "Now that's an unexpected question. Did your ministry lose contact with the 'chosen one'? Did you discover a new dark lord that you need Harry to take care of for you?"Kingsley was quite aware that his question went unanswered from the sly attorney in front of him. "I just need to know if you have been in contact with him, that is all.""Is Harry in trouble?" she asked, again in such away that she still had not revealed any useful information."Trouble? No, but if you had seen the Daily Prophet, you would know that it still has a way of finding him," Shack explained. "Apparently he has been living among muggles. And apparently people who want to hurt him have found him, and we haven't. Someone is after him, and your nephew, and that someone or possibly some persons know where they are, but the DMLE only knows where Harry and Draco were attacked."That news got Andromeda's attention. "So, you're admitting that someone who wanted to attack Harry and or Draco did a better job of tracking them down than your own Aurors have?"Kingsley sheepishly acknowledged that yes, that was the situation.Andromeda Tonks returned Kingsley's original question with a series of her own. "Why are these unnamed people after Harry? Or are they after Draco? And why, pray tell, are Harry and his nemesis from Hogwarts together?"And before Minister Shacklebolt could claim Ministry secrets or some other such nonsense, she added, "And remember, you came to me seeking information, so if you want any answers, you better be prepared to answer mine first!"Kingsley resigned himself to revealing what he did know. "It seems that Harry and Draco rooming together, in muggle apartment, but I have no idea why they are doing that."Andromeda thought about what she had heard. "That is most unusual, for both of them, not that I really know my nephew all that well. And no I haven't heard from either of them," she continued. "I haven't heard from Narcissa, we're not exactly on speaking terms."The minister seemed puzzled as he asked, "Not even over Black Family issues?"Andromeda laughed. "You should know that I was cast out long ago.""I thought you were brought back in by the current Lord Black," Kingsley added, recalling that he had overheard Harry's plans to do that at one point."Yes, he did," she laughed slightly again, "however, the Malfoys were never particularly close to Harry, were they, my brother-in-law especially.""So, you have not had any contact with Narcissa, then?""Kingsley, you're worse than a reporter and a rookie prosecutor, I already answered that question," replied Andromeda with more than a little irritation. "Obviously you and your ministry and the DMLE want to find Harry, and you have no idea where he is. For some reason he and his cousin, because essentially he and Draco are cousins, are living somewhere among muggles in London. Did you ever consider that everything Harry has been through over the past seven years has kind of turned him off to magical society? Our world has turned on him about as often as the sun rises in the morning. He has saved our skins from Voldemort more than we know, he has saved students at that school countless times, usually to be labelled as either the next Dark Lord on the rise or as a lunatic or a murderer or Merlin knows what. Maybe the young man just wants to be left alone."Kingsley frowned. "But there are those who do not want to leave him alone," he added.Andromeda sighed heavily. "As the Daily prophet indicated. And yes, I have read the article." She smiled at him. "I am from the House of Black. I am a Slytherin. And I there is something more that you want, besides information about my grandson's godfather."Kingsley deflated slightly. "I'm that transparent, am I? Well, I am fully aware of your skills, your legal skills. There have been some questionable transactions going on over at Gringotts. I need a pair of trustworthy eyes looking into this, and I need it to not be immediately traced back to my office that such an investigation is underway."She scoffed at his comments. "Then how do you propose that I actually investigate Gringotts? It's not like they would be open to just some random audit from any old wizard walking through the door.""No, of course they wouldn't," agreed Shacklebolt, "however, I do have some ideas on how you could go about this, and as you said, you are a Slytherin, and you are a Black…"~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Pansy Parkinson and Theodore Nott were about to head back to school to repeat their seventh year. They had met over the summer and both of their mothers had discussed with them that with the fall out from the events in May and June that it might look better for the two of them to distance themselves from the activities that had occurred, whether or not they had participated in them. Pansy had asked Theodore to meet with her this morning, before they were to head back to Hogwarts, as she wanted to speak to him about what it would be like to return to school for an extra year. They met at her home and she had a house elf bring them tea and biscuits to a table in the garden out back.Pansy spoke first, "Is anyone else from our house and year returning?"Theodore replied quickly, "I heard Draco has disappeared.""And Daphne," added Pansy.Theodore nodded, "But the Prophet had some report that Malfoy and Potter took out Crabbe's father the other day."There was silence in response to his comments and Theodore felt that it must have struck a nerve with the young woman. He then asked, "Do you know something about that?"She answered quietly, "The Shadow Lord does."Theodore was surprised, but tried to hide his reaction. "So, you've heard about this shadow."Pansy nodded and continued to speak softly, even though they were in her own yard. "We need to speak about him only in safe places. Hogwarts will probably not be safe, at least not in the halls, and definitely not in our dorms, with the fall out after the defeat of the Dark Lord and his Death Eaters."Nott looked around the yard for a moment before commenting further. "I presume your father's locked away, too."Pansy shrugged slightly, "Well, I think my father is only in a holding cell, isn't your father at Azkaban?"The young man shifted slightly as he answered, "Yes, he is there again. The last time he was there, the Dark Lord was able to have him and others broken out."Pansy tried to change the subject. "Is Goyle returning?"Theodore looked down at his feet before looking back up at Pansy. "I'm not sure, I haven't heard yet about Blaise, either, but I rather doubt it. He never really hung out with us that much. I think Davis is but again, I'm not sure. Bulstrode might be coming back. We may have some luck with some of the new 7th years in joining us. Maybe even some of the 6th years."Pansy spoke sternly to him, "Remember, if we speak with any of them, it will have to be one on one, either before we get back to school, off the school grounds, or at least outside. Be careful about who you speak with about any of this."Theodore raised an eyebrow. "So, have you spoken with the Shadow Lord?"Pansy sat up straighter. " Yes I have, and he will communicate only with those he selects and only with pure-bloods and only on his terms."Theodore eyed her on a new light. Quite simply, he was impressed with Parkinson, in a way he never had been before. "Is there a plan?"Pansy smiled demurely, "Yes, but the first plan is a simple one."Theodore leaned back slightly as he asked, "And that is?"Pansy had a smug expression as she stated, "What Vincent's dad failed at: revenge."~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~The man walked at a hurried pace. Although no one was following him, and no one in particular knew where he was or where he was going. The people he passed along his way just seemed to ignore him. But it was those people that he passed that bothered this man. These people were just so…he searched for the word in his mind as he tried to move quickly without looking like he was moving quickly…they were just so beneath him. They were just so plain, so simple, so ordinary. They were just so muggle.Malcolm Travers had always been a supporter of pure-blood rights, just not so openly as his cousin. His cousin, the Death Eater who helped create the Muggle Born Registration Committee, and who happened to die during the Battle of Hogwarts, or what this new Shadow Lord was calling the Desecration of the Pure-Blood Way. However, having to make his way through muggle neighbourhoods and down an alley to an abandoned building just to find this so called Shadow Lord was more than a little disconcerting for someone who had spent so little time in the muggle world, and never so far away from the magical world. Especially with the instructions that under no circumstances was he to use any magic during his travels to get to this location.Upon arriving at the warehouse, there was a simple door, with no obvious lock and no obvious magical barrier. Travers was not very good at detecting wards, or he would have known that there were several that had already been set up protecting the building. They just weren't cast by wizards. The Shadow Lord may not have enjoyed having to work with the goblins to have the wards erected, but he did appreciate the secrecy and anonymity involved.Travers made his way to the back room, which was dimly lit, and the mysterious Shadow Lord could hardly be seen sitting in the, well, shadows. Travers fought off laughing at the absurdity of it all.The man in the shadows spoke softly, "Do you have the information?""Yes, I have the files you requested," replied Malcolm, placing the folders on the table. "They are labeled accordingly: Potter, Weasley, Longbottom, Lovegood, Granger.""Good, good," commented the voice in the shadows. "What about the others? The other names I gave you?""I started with the ones who were involved in the original attack, the ministry attack to get the prophecy a couple of years ago," Travers tried to explain."They are all blood traitors," hissed the voice which sounded raw. "Bones, Greengrass, Malfoy, Abbot, and any others who supported Potter in any way during and after the war."Travers trembled at the anger and venom in the voice. "You can't possibly be planning to attack them all openly!" he exclaimed."Of course not! I am no fool. A fool wouldn't have survived as I have, a fool would have rushed out for vengeance as Crabbe did," commented the Shadow Lord, with a slight laugh. "No, I am truly of the house of Slytherin. I will set my plans in motion, slowly, carefully, methodically. Potter will not be able to defend himself from that which he does not know is coming. Now, get me the rest of the information, and do it quickly."AN: another chapter done. Lately these chapters are shorter than what I often post for most of my stories, but they seem to naturally break at theses points. (or not so naturally - the meeting between Harry and Susan will occur in the next Chapter - and Harry WILL show up on time...don't worry). Life is getting more complicated for our intrepid hero, in more ways than one...fate still likes to kick him around apparently...





--------




AN: This is a fairly quick update for me, I am not sure when the next one will be able to happen as I will be on vacation and I will be working on more of the plot changes.So far I have deleted one anonymous review - posting reviews that curse me and tell me I am stupid for the way I write my story is no way to get it posted. You may not like the story, but then again, you don't have to read it. I know I take some criticism for my stories (Lord Emperor is undergoing some rewriting that includes dealing with some plot inconsistencies that MANY reviewers pointed out that I missed, so I do NOT discount criticism). I even have gone back and fixed grammar and spelling mistakes which I have missed and others have pointed out...however, if you don't like major themes or story arcs, well, it is my story. I took a lot of criticism for one small part of my story in Moving On, and I still get reviews that blast me for that. I understand that criticism and that particular issue will NOT be happening in this story...(you will have to read that story to find put what I am talking about if you don't already know).Also, as far as story criticism goes, as I pointed out in another author's note - this story started out mainly as fluff - but a commentary from a reader made me reconsider and I have changed to plot and thrown in mystery and intrigue and the whole "Shadow Lord" plot, which is, in my opinion, making a much more interesting and exciting story, adding adventure and magic and all that...so, I feel I do respond to constructive criticism.Now that is all out of the way, thanks for reading, and I hope you all enjoy this chapter...Chapter 7 - FalloutHarry arrived at the coffee shop at 9:29. Susan was sitting a table outside reading a muggle newspaper, seemingly very relaxed."Um, hey Sue, it looks like I made it here with a minute to spare," said Harry as he sat down next to her.Susan looked up at him with a weak smile, "It's okay Harry, I would have given you an extra minute or two, but probably no more than that."Harry frowned slight at her words before speaking up again. "So, can I get you something while we're here?"She shook her head, "Actually, right now I'm not particularly hungry or thirsty, for some reason." Harry could hear the frustration and pain in her voice. "Maybe we should just take a walk in the park."Harry nodded in agreement and offered her his hand. Reluctantly, she took it, and they walked across the street and into the park. They began their walk in silence for several minutes before Harry finally started to speak."You know Sue, my friends from school, Hermione for one, think I can be a little thick at times," he said slowly.Susan didn't respond as they walked through the gardens of the park, and Harry then continued, "We've been spending a lot of time together, I've been showing you all around London, and it's been great and all. I've really enjoyed it." Harry paused again as he took a deep breath. "You might have noticed when we were at Hogwarts that I really didn't have many friends. Beyond Ron and Hermione no one really wanted to hang out with me. There were those who wanted to be with the Boy-Who-Lived and all that, but few people wanted to know me, Harry. Then we ran into each other and it has been really nice."Harry stopped and looked at Susan. "I've enjoyed being friends with you. I really have. And then I ran into Daphne this summer too. And we started going to clubs. And we would go dancing. And that was really fun too."As they had been walking for a while and Harry looked up and noticed that they were near a park bench with a view of some flowers so he pointed to it and the two of them took a seat.Susan quietly sat down.Harry then continued. "I never really was very good with dating. I had a horrible experience at the Yule Ball in fourth year. Then I tried asking Cho out in fifth year and that ended up being a huge mistake."Susan was about to say something but Harry waved her off as he continued."Then in sixth year I had this foolish idea that I was interested in Ginny, you know, Ron's little sister. We broke up, well I broke up with her at the end of the school year. I was worried that she would be targeted by the Death Eaters, and that was also when the three of us left to go after things we needed to take care of to finally put down Voldemort for good." Harry passed again to rub his forehead in the middle of this part of his story. He noticed that Susan seemed to be hanging on his every word, but he had to look away from her for a moment before he continued."And while we were doing that, going after the Dark Lord, fighting to end the war, I realised that I could never really be with Ginny. She reminded me too much of my mum, and I never really knew her, my mum that is. And she was still Ron's little sister. Besides, I would always wonder how much of her interest in me was just hero worship after what happened during my second year, so I really had no interest in dating her by the time the battle was over."Harry paused in his monologue and looked over at Susan who now seemed to be unsure of how to respond to everything he had just said.Harry grimaced slightly as he added, "Too much to say at once, huh."Susan smiled, "No, it's okay, you really had a lot bottled up."Harry nodded and smiled awkwardly. "I guess what I'm really trying to say is that I think when it comes to girls, I really don't know how to act. I don't know what to say. I've never been very good with this sort of thing."Susan leaned towards him. "Harry, it's okay." She lifted a hand towards him, put a finger on his lips. "It's okay. Stop talking for a moment. I think I get the point."Harry was surprised by her response. "You do?"Susan tried to calm him. "Harry, you need to calm down and relax."Harry was stunned by her reaction, "Oh."Susan spoke quietly, "Harry, just close your eyes."Harry did as she said. She then removed her finger from his lips. She then replaced her finger with her own lips~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~A knock came on the door to the apartment. Draco wondered who could it be now. Harry had Daphne had cleaned herself up and left. He walked over to the door and opened it."Oh, it's you," commented Draco."Nice to see you too, Malfoy," said Hermione as she glared back at the blonde standing in front of her.Trying to be nicer, Draco opened the door as he said, "Why don't you come in, Granger, although Potter is not here. I think he is off with one of his girlfriends, or perhaps potential girlfriends is more accurate."Hermione was already walking into the flat and then she stopped and turned around and stared at the blonde ponce. "What are you talking about?""Well, he did bring back one girl from a club last night," began Draco in way of explanation, purposefully not giving her the whole story, "snogged her before leaving this morning and then heading off to spend the day with the other girl who showed up this morning, who was not happy to see that the girl from last night was still here and wearing not much more than one of his t-shirts."Hermione continued to stare at Draco in disbelief. "Harry would never do something like that."Draco laughed at her. "Oh, he most definitely would! You just don't have all of the details."Hermione frowned, feeling disgusted at what Draco might be laughing at. "I don't think I want to hear the details."Draco smirked some more. "How quickly you jump to conclusions about your friend, whom I thought you knew so well and trusted. Tsk, tsk, Granger, giving up on him so easily. I would have thought you had more faith in your dear friend than that.""What? You're the one who told me he took someone back here last night," she protested.Draco continued with his smug smile, "Yes, I did, but I did not say I told you the whole story."Hermione's protest turned to a pout. "But that wasn't very nice."Draco's expression turned to one of calm indifference, "That was very Slytherin of me. Please, Granger, remember to whom you are speaking."Hermione let out an exasperated sigh. "So then, Malfoy, could you please tell me what really happened."Draco shrugged, "I don't know all of what happened."Hermione felt like screaming at him. "Very well, can you please tell me what you do know."Draco walked into the room and sat down in one of the comfortable chairs. Hermione followed him, dropped her shoulder bag onto the floor and slid into a chair as well."Harry was supposed to meet a friend at a club, but he arrived late. And this lady friend had apparently been drugged by some unsavoury characters, who were planning to take advantage of her," Draco began explaining as best as he could. "Harry, being the Gryffindor golden boy that he is, dashed into the fray and saved her, apparently taking out several of the thugs in the process."Hermione gasped slightly at hearing this.But Draco continued with the tale, undaunted by her interruption. "Not knowing the address of said damsel in distress, he returned here and deposited the drugged lady in his bed and slept on the couch. Upon awakening this morning, said damsel, who was disoriented and wearing her evening wear changed into one of the chivalrous lion's t-shirts and came into yonder kitchen as Harry's date for the day arrived. Seeing said nymph in such a state of undress thanking our hero for last night's escapades distressed the young woman who arrived unaware of Harry's plans for last night. Needless to say, this young woman was not too pleased to witness the situation and assumed the worst, just as you have."Draco leaned back into the chair with a smug look on his face.Hermione was awed by the story. "So where is Harry?" she asked wondering what happened next.Draco stood up and walked into the kitchen and grabbed himself a bottle of water. He offered one to Hermione and tossed her a bottle as well. Then he answered her question. "I do believe that he is trying to sooth the feelings of the second young woman who was feeling grievously wounded by the scene she witnessed this morning."Hermione took a sip of water and then asked, "Where is the other woman? The one from last night?""The fair strumpet has returned home after failing to woo Harry in thanks for his chivalrous deed, although I do believe that she will continue to ply her womanly arts of persuasion on dear Harry as he has proven himself to be of the highest character and noble standing," declared Draco. "Plus he can take care of himself in a brawl when out numbered by some rather large muggles. Or at least that's his version of the story, but he didn't have even a mark on him, so I wonder how much of his side of the story is true."Hermione now sunk back into the chair contemplating the story she had just heard."Now that our discourse is completed, Granger, I see no further reason for you to remain," added DracoHermione's head snapped up and she stared at Draco, "What?""You heard me," he snapped."You don't have to be uncivil," she snapped back."I didn't think I was being uncivil," he replied with an icy tone, "I was simply requesting that you leave as the one person you came to see is not here as you have already discerned. I have answered the questions you have posed, so I see no further reasons for you to remain here in my presence."Hermione was puzzled by his sudden reaction. "What, can't I speak with you?"Draco took a deep breath to calm himself a little before he responded. "You made it more than clear the last time you were here exactly what your opinion is of me, so if you would be so kind, you may leave at any time. You don't need to subject yourself to my presence any longer."Hermione shook her head for a moment and then turned to face him, and spoke with a pleading tone. "What if I realized that I may have misjudged you?"Draco sneered in response, "You don't need to placate my feelings, Granger."Hermione nearly scoffed at his retort. "Wow, that's a big word for you, Malfoy."Draco sneered again, "I figured I might need to use big words for you to make sure you understood what I said. Wouldn't want you thinking any less of me than you already do."By now they were both standing up and facing each other. The tension in the room was palpable and growing by the moment.Hermione bit her lip. "Would it help if I said I'm sorry?"Draco felt a little confused and narrowed his eyes as he looked at her. "What do you need to apologise for Granger?"Hermione tried to avert her eyes from his but she couldn't manage to do that. "Telling you that I hated you," she said softly, trying to hold back any tears."I'm a big boy, Granger. I've had people hating me almost all of my life," he replied. "Actually, there have probably been those who have hated me since before I was born just because of my family name. So I think it's going to take a little more than some witch who I hardly know telling me she hates me to get under my skin. But if it will help you sleep better at night, I accept your apology. So, once again, you are still free to leave."Hermione was surprised that she felt that his words actually stung. She wondered why she would allow herself to be bothered by anything that he said. "Why? You seem to be trying to get rid of me."Draco started to turn away from her. "We have nothing further to speak about, so I see no reason for your continued presence, unless you have some knowledge of when your friend is going to return."Hermione was becoming irritated with Draco. "You don't have to be rude."Draco turned back around and took another step closer towards her. "Me? Rude? I wasn't the one who professed their hatred for the other now, was I?" He was silently cursing himself for letting his voice get louder, a good Slytherin shouldn't allow their emotions to get the better of them like this.Hermione was trying to hold back tears. "That was something I never should have said!"Draco was working on calming himself. "Perhaps, but you said it, and I dare say you know you meant it."Hermione felt like screaming at him. "You infuriate me!"Draco managed to smirk at her again. "Apparently I have that effect on people from time to time."Hermione let out a muffled scream.Draco let out a slight laugh in response. "I'm surprised your boyfriend never caused you to react like this."Hermione looked up at Draco. "What boyfriend?"Draco simply responded, "The Weasel."Hermione gave him a blank look before replying, "Why would you say that? And besides it isn't any of your business."Draco realised he must have touched on a raw nerve. "Why? Because he was never your type. He was lazy, you clearly never were. He was a pig, you were fastidious. He was uncouth, you at least had taste, well, until it came to him." Draco paused a moment before he continued, noticing that he had her rapt attention. "I always wondered if you were ever checked for compulsion charms, that would have been the only thing that I could ever think of that would have ever drawn you to him. Unless of course it was a matter of what muggles would call transference."Hermione was surprised by his comment. "What do you know about transference?"Draco simply smirked.Hermione stepped up to Draco and got into his face. "Well, Malfoy, what do you know about it?"Draco continued to smirk. "You don't want to hear my theory."Hermione continued to wait on his response. "I am all ears," she said as she planted her hands on her hips stepping closer to him.Draco shook his head. "Fine, but you don't really want to hear it."Hermione started to impatiently tap her foot. "I'm waiting"Draco sighed and then he began to explain. "You were secretly in love with Potter, but for some reason that was an unrequited love. Maybe he didn't return the feelings or you realized that the relationship would never work, so you settled for the closest thing: his best friend."Hermione's jaw dropped, "That's about the stupidest thing I ever heard!"Draco smiled back at her. "Hit that close to home, did it?"She slapped him.Draco didn't even flinch.He noticed a tear in her eye.Draco spoke softly to her. "I really did hit the mark. Are you still fooling yourself with Weasley."Hermione was trying to hold back her tears. "No, I broke it off with him before I even went to Australia."Draco spoke softly, "Good, that was smart."Hermione looked up at him, "Why do you care?"Draco didn't answer her.Hermione spoke again. "I asked you, why do you care?"On impulse, Draco leaned forward, reached behind her with his hands and pulled her into and embrace and kissed her full on the lips.She started to kiss him back before she pushed him away. "What the hell, Malfoy!"He stood there, staring at her. "Tell me you didn't enjoy that on some level."Hermione glared at him. "Why the hell did you do that?"Draco shrugged his shoulders, "Because I've been wanting to try that for months."Hermione was stunned. She felt she needed to pinch herself, or else she was being pranked something awful. She looked back at Malfoy and asked incredulously, "What?"Draco had a hard time finding the right words, then after a minute he answered her question. "Fine, I'll come out and say it, you're the most beautiful witch I think I've ever seen, and I've been going crazy thinking about you since the day the snatchers brought you to the manor. I've being going spare worrying about you and it's been even worse knowing you hate me." He then turned around and started back towards his room again."Draco, wait," she called after him.He paused, but did not turn around. "What did you say?"Hermione answered, "I said 'Draco, wait'. Please, don't walk away."He turned and looked at her.Hermione stared into his eyes. "You really do care about me?""I told you so much in many ways every time you've come here," he tried to explain. "I've apologised as many ways as I know how for the mud-blood stuff. It's hard to change years of thinking, years of what has been taught in my family for generations."Hermione bit her lip. She wrapped her arms around herself as she shifted back and forth from one foot to another. "You don't hate me?"Draco sighed as he saw her discomfort. "I've never really hated you. I've hated myself for being jealous of you since first year. I've had to hide my feelings from everyone in my house. If my father, my family ever found out that I liked a mud…that I liked a muggle born, then I would have been disowned, or worse. I never had the strength to stand up to my family. I needed to feel strong and powerful, so I acted like a jerk in front of everyone. And that was cruel.""Maybe we should go somewhere and talk," she said softly. "I'd take you up on that offer of dinner if it still stands, or lunch or whatever…if you'd accept my apology for my rudeness."~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Harry arrived back at his flat early in the afternoon. He was definitely feeling very confused. Over the summer he clearly had misread signals from Susan. Harry was having fun just hanging out with her, being friends, enjoying the sights, while Susan was apparently falling for him, becoming very interested in being boyfriend-girlfriend and she had assumed he and felt the same way.Well, now he knew exactly how Susan felt, and what she wanted. The problem was he also now knew exactly what Daphne wanted. Harry realised he had never been in such a position before, having not just one, but two beautiful women interested in him, and also making it clear to him that they liked him. And both women made it clear that they liked him for who he was, not any of this Boy-Who-Lived crap either.Harry started to pace back and forth in his apartment while he was thinking about what he needed to do. He had enjoyed kissing Susan. And she was wonderful. They did speak for sometime after she kissed him at the park. She wasn't pressuring him at all. She understood that he might need some time to sort out his own feelings. Harry could tell she was a little sad at Harry not returning her feelings immediately, but she was also able to see that this summer was the first time in Harry's life that he was having a summer where he wasn't worrying about someone attacking him or having to deal with his horrid muggle relatives.As he was walking around his flat he suddenly realised that no one else was there. He wondered where Draco was, but then again, his flat mate wasn't in the habit of telling him what he was up to, he didn't think much more about it. Harry sat down and contemplated his situation. He had two very pretty girls, no women, who were both attracted to him, and he was definitely attracted to the both of them. He felt his heart starting to race and he was feeling as though he was becoming more anxious about the whole situation.Harry decided that he needed to do something to clear his mind, to think about this more carefully, and sitting here in his flat in the middle of London wasn't helping him any. He went into his room and grabbed his broom, and shrunk it down and put it in his pocket just in case he decided to use it. As he was about to leave, he decided to leave a quick note for Draco.Went out to clear my head, trying to figure out what to do about Susan and Daphne, - HA moment later Harry apparated away.~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Daphne has gone back to her apartment and showered and cleaned up from her ordeal from the night before. She ended up calling in to her job as a receptionist and explaining that she was feeling under the weather. It was now early in the afternoon and she had managed to fix herself some tea and sit back and relax and consider every thing that had happened recently. She was about to take a sip of her tea when there was a knock at her door. Cursing under her breath for being disturbed she got up to answer the door.Daphne was more than a little surprised to open the door and have her younger sister nearly bounce into her flat."Hey Daph," she said cheerfully, "what are you doing home today? You know, dad has discovered where you are, or rather, where you've been working. Speaking of which, like I just asked, why aren't you at work?"Daphne cursed under her breath. "Why don't you come in Astoria? Oh, you already did."Astoria ignored her sister's comments. "You know, Dad's meeting with your boss, he's discussing business issues. I think he said he has threatened some dealings that may put him out of business, well not directly to his face, at least I don't think he did, at least not yet."Daphne tried to remain calm. "What business is it of father's?"Astoria just smiled. "He's still angry at you backing out of the betrothal contract when you disappeared earlier this summer."Daphne glared at no one in particular, "That was a horrid contract and you know it."Astoria just shrugged her shoulders. "He know's it too, but he feels he doesn't have many options, he's trying to save the family name and the family business. You know that. Or at least you told me you understood that before you left." Astoria slid into a seat in the middle of the flat.Daphne was pacing around the room. "What if I find away to save the family name and the family business without him forcing either one of us into a betrothal against our will?"Astoria sighed, "There's no way that's ever going to happen. What wizard would allow such an arrangement?"Daphne's eyes lit up, "Tell father I am actively working on a plan…"Astoria sat up and her eyes narrowed, "I will NOT lie to father."Daphne smiled, "You wouldn't be lying."Astoria's expression did not change, "I won't participate in a fabrication or a prank. I'm not in Slytherin, I'm in Ravenclaw."Daphne stopped and looked pointedly at her younger sister. "Astoria, I am seriously working on something that could quite possibly work out for everyone, myself included. And it would leave you free to pursue a relationship based solely on love and desire, not on family name or the good of the family business."Astoria shook her head. She understood the pure-blood ways and what would be required for such a thing. "But there is no way…"Daphne cut her off mid sentence. "Astoria, hush. I am actively working on this, I will say nothing more at this time. If it works, of course I will let you know. If it doesn't I will let father know and I will allow him to plan what he needs to. I will still do what needs to be done so you at least can have a future based on love."Astoria looked at her sister with sorrow in her eyes, "You can't do that, that's not fair to you."Daphne shook her head. "I can try and do what is right, and if this works, I will be as content as can be. Now, run back to mother and father, and tell him of my proposal. If things go well, then you will hear of it soon enough. And everyone will be satisfied. Trust me on this."Astoria was shocked by her sister's words. She couldn't figure out what her sister could possibly be planning. "Fine, but you do know what tomorrow is, don't you?"Daphne's expression softened as she hugged her sister gently. "Yes, I do, and you're heading off to school for your 6th year."Astoria returned the hug and stepped back. "Yes, and you should be too, you should return for one more year."Daphne scoffed, "Why is that? I already did my seventh year."Astoria pouted slightly, "Some of your classmates are returning."Daphne raised an eyebrow, "Like I should care.""Pansy and Millicent and Theodore are returning," added Astoria.Daphne was not impressed as she repeated her question, "And like I said before, why should I care?"Astoria ignored the irritation in her sister's voice, "They've been asking about you."Daphne tilted her head slightly to one side, "And what did you tell them?"Astoria simply replied, "That I had no idea where you were.""Thanks Tori," replied Daphne as she hugged her sister once again.Astoria smiled before she asked her next question, "Now what am I supposed to tell them when they undoubtedly ask about you the next time I see them?"Daphne sighed, "Tell them anything. Tell them I am working on securing my future, that ought to keep those pure-blood sycophants satisfied for at least a little while without telling them anything truly important"Astoria pouted for a moment, and then Daphne added, "Do me a favour, and try not to get too involved in anything that group is doing."Astoria was puzzled by this comment as she commented, "I thought they were your friends."Daphne looked at her sister carefully, "They were my classmates, they were my housemates, they were my associates, but never were those people my friends. I was sorted into Slytherin. You, my precious little sister, have been fortunate to be in Ravenclaw, you should understand there is a difference. Pleas, do not force the issue."Astoria was about to protest, "But the war is over."Daphne sat down in a chair across from where Astoria had been sitting. "Ideologies do not change just because the battle was lost. Did you not read the paper? Some people are still fighting the war."Astoria thought about the article from the Daily Prophet. "Those people are just going after Potter, what do you or I have to worry about?"Daphne rolled her eyes, "Tori, just bring the message back to mother and father that I gave to you earlier. It was good to see you, really. But I do need to get some things sorted out."Astoria looked at her sister. Before she left she asked her sister one final question, "Is everything all right, I mean really okay? You wouldn't be hiding anything from me? You haven't gotten yourself in trouble have you?"Daphne smiled, "I am fine Astoria, I'm a big girl and I know how to take care of myself. And like I said, I am working on trying to arrange things with a prominent and respected household. But it still may take some time." She gave her sister a final hug before ushering her out the door and on her way.~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~The tall man entered the warehouse and made his way tot he back room. Upon arriving at his destination he spoke to the man in the shadows who was obviously waiting on him. "So, you have a name for yourself now, the Shadow Lord?"The man in the shadows replied, "It seems to fit. Do you have the information?"The tall man replied simply, "Crabbe was a fool, while he found where they worked, he did not find where they lived."The Shadow Lord nodded, "That much is certain. So, do you have anything useful then?"The man grinned, "I have been able to track Granger. The mud-blood may be able to lead us to them.""Good, good," said the Shadow Lord, a smile barely perceptible. "Perhaps there is a use for her kind after all. Meanwhile, Travers has been gathering more information for me on the others."The man smiled again. "Is there anything else for now?""The other two have proven useless, as they managed to get themselves caught at Potter's place that the Blood Traitor Black had willed to him," explained the Shadow Lord. "But that has proven to be of little value anyway as he has not returned there since last fall. However, we may be getting some new recruits. The students are returning to school. There are those who still hold to the old ideals. Defeat at the hands of the scarred one has not caused everyone to give up hope in the old ways. We have our own assets in place to begin recruiting from within the school and to gather more information, and if necessary, to gain extra leverage. So, patience, my friend, patience, we cannot move too quickly, but we will have our revenge."The man nodded, "Those are wise words."The Shadow Lord simply nodded, "Yes, now you had mentioned Granger. Has she been marked yet? Can I track her? Can you track her?"A simple nod was given in response. "She has not been hard to find with her movements in and out of the magical world. We can start to follow her movements any time.""Very good," acknowledged the Shadow Lord. "Then perhaps my plans can start to unfold." His smile turned into a laugh, and then his laugh turned into a brief spasm of coughing."Now, begone, and find the mud-blood, track her, and complete the first part of your mission," he added once his coughing had stopped.~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Hermione and Draco arrived back at the flat. They stood outside the door next to each other. Hermione bit her lip and pulled Draco's arm back away from the doorknob.Draco looked down at her hand holding back his arm and then up at her face. "Don't tell me that after what happened earlier and spending time talking over things over lunch that all of a sudden you're embarrassed about our relationship.""No, it's not that, Draco," she said as shifted on her feet. "What if Harry isn't comfortable with our being together? I know he's being getting used to being with you. But it's not like you're exactly best mates. It seems to me that it's more like a mutual tolerance. Harry has been and always will be my best friend. It may not be important to you, but his approval means a lot to me."Draco stepped back and leaned against the wall next to the door. "I get it, I do. But I can't help how Harry is going to feel about this. If this feels right between you and I, isn't that what really matters? If you and I can come this far in our relationship, I would think that the Gryffindor Golden Boy should be able to grow up enough and deal with that. Who knows, maybe someday he might even consider dating a Slytherin himself."Hermione let out a big sigh, "I sure hope so." Then she looked at the door and then back at Draco. "Hopefully he's back from dealing with his own girl problems."Draco rolled his eyes. "One never knows with Potter." He then reached for the doorknob and looked back at Hermione, "Can we go in now?"Hermione grinned at him as she slapped him on the shoulder, "Yes you prat."Draco opened the door and let Hermione in. Hermione led the way and called out for Harry. There was no reply and they made their way into flat and looked around. Draco commented "It looks like he's not here, he's probably still dealing with his girl problems."Hermione was the first one to find the note on the kitchen counter. She called Draco over as she read the note.She raised an eyebrow as she looked at Draco, "Susan and Daphne? Is there something you haven't been telling me about Harry?"Draco paled at the question as he took the note from her hand. "I've told you the truth all along. You just never asked for anyone's names."Hermione's eyes showed she was starting to get angry with her new boyfriend. "Your repeated comments made it sound like he was dating muggle girls."Draco was back peddling quickly, "My comments made no such distinction. Although, Harry did meet them both quite by accident here in Muggle London. And he is trying to sort things out with both of them."Hermione pressed further, "So this does refer to Susan Bones and Daphne Greengrass, then."Draco gulped, "That would be a yes. Harry met up with Susan quite by accident early in the summer. They've been visiting sights around London all summer. Harry thought they were just friends, spending time together, just having fun. Apparently Susan thought it was becoming something more."Hermione nodded in understanding, "Harry can be that way, he doesn't always realise the affect he has on girls around him. So, what happened with Daphne?"Draco felt a little more sure of himself now, "What I told you earlier was the truth. He and Daphne had been meeting up to go dancing on and off for a while. Well, last night, he was late in meeting up with her, and apparently some muggles drugged her, and were planning to take advantage of her. So, once Harry showed up and figured out what was going on, you can imagine how he reacted. Once he rescued her, he had no idea where she lived, so he brought her back her. But of course, with the old Potter luck, Daphne came out of the bedroom wearing not much more than one of his T-shirts just as Susan showed up to go to the park with Harry. You can probably guess what happened from there."Hermione sat down as she almost cried for her best friend. "Oh, no, poor Harry, tries to do the right thing and it seems everything goes wrong."Draco just laughed. "Well, the last I knew, I tried to patch things up with Susan, they made arrangements to meet mid morning. Then he came back in and Daphne snogged him silly. So, I'm pretty sure his mind is quite confused right now."Hermione pondered what Draco had said. "Do you think we should go look for him?"Draco shrugged, "Wouldn't know, you're his best friend and I'd have no idea where he might have gone."Hermione started pacing the room. Draco just watched as she walked back and forth. She started to bite gently on one of her knuckles. "Well, maybe we can wait here for a little while, and if he doesn't show up, then maybe we should go look for him."Draco shook his head, "You worry about Harry way too much."~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Earlier, when Harry had left his apartment he had apparated to just outside of Godric's Hollow. He had not returned since the Christmas time when he and Hermione and been there and ended up being attacked by Nagini and he his original wand had been broken. Harry made his way towards the graveyard and he easily found his parents' grave stones. He knelt down in front of them and quietly stayed there for several minutes.Finally he started to speak to his parents out loud. "I don't know if you can hear me at all, but it seems I've found myself in another mess. It may not be quite the same as facing Tom Riddle, but it may be almost as dangerous. I'm sure you'd think it was a wonder flu prank, Dad, but I wouldn't want to disappoint you, Mum. You see, I've got these two beautiful girls, or I guess I should say young women. They both like me and I like them both. I didn't mean to lead either one of them on, and now it seems that I need to make some sort of a decision. Being the young Lord Potter-Black is not an easy thing to do. I still don't even know what that really means, to be a Lord. Hell, I'm Lord of two different houses, so I guess I got you beat there, Dad. Sirius is probably laughing somewhere about that, thinking that it is some sort of grand prank he pulled on me, making me a Lord of a second house."Suddenly Harry's eyes went wide. The thought of being a Lord of a second house made him wonder what that really meant. He knew he would have two seats on the Wizengamot, but what else did this mean? Did the goblins know? Did the ministry know? Did anyone know? Had this ever happened before? Surely he wouldn't have been the first Lord to be the head of more than one house before. Then Harry started to thinking about the two women. Susan was the last of the Bones family for all he knew. And Daphne, from what he recalled, she only had a sister, and he thought from what he recalled she was also from a prominent family.Harry stood up and started pacing around the graveyard. It occurred to him that this while situation was potentially much more complicated than he ever dreamed of, and he may have no idea what he might be getting himself into. Now he just had to find someone who might have some answers or at least some clue as where to begin to find some answers. It may not help him figure out what to do about matters of the heart, because for right now, he was still drawn to both of the beautiful women and he had no idea of how we could possibly decide between the two of them.He looks back towards the village of Godric's Hollow. "Well, I guess it's unavoidable, I will have to go speak with someone, and since I have nowhere else to start…" with that thought there was a slight popping sound as he disappeared from the graveyard.A moment later Harry appeared in an alley across from the muggle entrance to the Leaky Cauldron. He smiled to himself as he remembered that this was almost the exact spot where he ran into Susan just a couple of months ago. Harry looked around and then crossed the road and made his way quickly to the magical pub. He hesitated before he entered the pub, casting a quick disillusionment charm on himself so as not to be bothered by anyone who might be there as he made his way through to Diagon Alley. He was glad he did as he was sure that the crowded pub would have had more than a few people who would have called out to him, even if it was only to thank him for defeating He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named one more time, or some such thing. He didn't bother to look around to see if he recognised anyone himself. He tapped the bricks as quickly as he could to make his way into the alley, and from there he proceeded to head to Gringott's Bank. With a simple wave of his hand he cancelled the disillusionment charm as he crossed the threshold of the bank and he made his way to a teller and asked to speak with Ragnok.The goblin teller barely looked up from what he was doing and just growled, "Who do you think you are wizard, Harry Potter, that you can just walk right in and expect to speak with Ragnok?""Well, actually, I am Harry Potter," he said quietly.The goblin was about to growl again when he looked up and saw that yes indeed, he was face to face with Harry Potter. "My apologies, Lord Potter-Black, I will see if the Director is available to meet with you now."The goblin hopped down off of his chair and hurried away. His quick movements were unusual for a goblin and this caught the attention of all of the other goblins in the lobby and even some of the witches and wizards who were present. Suddenly the entire lobby fell silent as everyone seemed to realise just who was present in the bank. Harry realised that everyone, including the bank employees, were all staring at him. The teller returned in less than a minute and bowed his head slightly in front of Harry. "Director Ragnok has indicated that he does indeed have time to meet with you now, Lord Potter-Black," said the goblin, "so, if you would please follow me."Harry acknowledged the goblin with a slight incline of his head and followed right behind the teller turned messenger.A few minutes later Harry found himself sitting with the director of Gringott's Bank once again.~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~After waiting for a while, Hermione had been growing increasingly impatient. Hermione finally voiced her opinion, "I think that at least one of us should go and look for Harry."Draco replied with his own concern, "Where would we even look?"Hermione stood up and looked directly into Draco's eyes as she told him, "I think I know the first place to go look."Draco wondered as he looked back into her brown eyes, "Where would that be?"Her response sounded as simple as if she was explaining the answer to a first year yes question, "Godric's Hollow."Draco stepped back a moment, surprised. "But why would he go there? Seems kind of morbid to me."Hermione shook her head, "You don't understand Harry the way I do. We went there once while we were hunting…while we were on the run from the Death Eaters. He wanted to visit his parent's gravesite. He said in his note he wanted to clear his mind. That would be the place he would go, to have a chance to talk to his parents about something like this."Draco felt even more confused. "I didn't know that Harry could talk to the dead. Is he as weird as Lovegood and I didn't even know it?"Hermione slapped him on the shoulder. "No, he can't really talk to his parents, it's something he'll do figuratively. He'll just pretend to do it. It's something that will help him sort things out. Maybe even help him bring closure to things."Draco nodded his head slowly, "I think I might understand, a little."Hermione then suggested, "Why don't you wait here, in case he shows up and that's not where he went while I go check out Godric's Hollow. I've been there before with Harry. Besides, like you said earlier, he won't be expecting the two of us showing up together."Draco leaned in and gave her a quick kiss on the lips, "Sure, but do be careful."Hermione returned the kiss briefly. "Hey, I'm always careful."~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Harry had arrived at Gringotts and was now meeting with Ragnok, the bank director. However, Harry was surprised that Ragnok was not in a pleasant mood. Another goblin had just handed the director several files.The director looked up at Harry and appeared to be almost apologetic. Harry definitely felt confusion.Ragnok began the conversation, "I am relieved that you came so quickly, Lord Potter-Black, but my people had not fully completed our investigation as of yet."Harry was stunned, "What investigation?"Ragnok was now surprised, "You're not here because of the investigation into the irregularities? Then why are you here today?"Harry was taken aback. "I had some questions about being the Lord of two separate houses. What irregularities?"Ragnok actually shifted slightly in his seat. "Let us deal with the issues here first. There had been some reports of a leak of some information. Apparently one of our workers here may have released some information as to the whereabouts of your living arrangements. Rest assured that that information did not contain a specific address, and I can personally assure that individual will never make any mistake again. Apparently there may be one or more wizard who has some general knowledge of where you live or work."Harry nodded, "I think that wizard was dealt with recently and he will not be causing any trouble for anyone else ever again."Ragnok raised an eyebrow. "That is the most efficient way to deal with a problem, is it not? We are still investigating some unusual transactions that have been made recently among certain accounts. If these in any way have any bearing on your various accounts, I will be sure to notify you.""Thank you Ragnok," replied Harry.Ragnok followed up Harry's comment with a further commentary, "I am not sure how any of your personal information was leaked. As I said we are still investigating such a transgression of our own policies. Such an event is not just unacceptable in our views it is considered a serious act of dishonour upon our kind. We take the situation most seriously and the distrust that it can sew between wizard and goblin we understand can lead to another war. Neither side would like to see it come to that, so I must ask you, Lord Potter-Black, please give us more time to investigate this matter before declaring a feud or worse."Harry now understood the seriousness of the event, at least from the goblins' point of view. Harry hoped that his patience, which he was very willing to give, could be turned into favours showed him by the goblins."I think that I can temper my reaction long enough to see what further information you discover, Ragnok," Harry replied. "However, as I said I do have information I need about my own houses, information that has not been easy for me to obtain even from my own Ministry of Magic. Over the years, many of the Ancient and Noble Houses have not always trusted the Ministry and from what I have learned, have kept many of their own documents here within their vaults, safeguarded by the goblin nation. What I need is information about House Potter and House Black. Are there particular rules or customs that I must follow as the Lord of these two houses, particularly as I am the last member of House Potter and almost the last member of House Black?"Ragnok sat back in his chair. "That is information that we may be able to help with to some extent, but I can tell you now that we will not be able to help you will all of it."Harry raised an eyebrow, "You are certain of this already?"Ragnok smiled thinly. "We have kept track of many of the rules, the old rules that govern the old houses. The reasons for this have to do with the longevity of the goblins as a race and our keeping the vaults in which your kind store your most prized possessions. However, the House of Black, they always required that the Rules of House Black be reviewed by a human, and never by a 'lesser creature,' so while we have a tome that lists all of the rules that would answer your questions, we are not permitted to use it. You would need to find a solicitor who would be able to assist you with this endeavour."Harry almost felt defeated, wondering where he could find such a trustworthy solicitor. Then he recalled that Andromeda Tonks was a solicitor, or at least he thought she was.Ragnok asked him, "Do you have a solicitor or an attorney?""I do believe that I may be able to use Madam Andromeda Tonks," Harry replied.Ragnok raised an eyebrow. "I am aware that she has an appointment here on some other business tomorrow, if she is available, I can request that she meets with you then."Harry smiled, "That would be very much appreciated, it has been too long since I have seen Andy." Then Harry added, "Can copies of the Rules for House Black and the Rules for House Potter be provided to her so she can review them, to see if there are any particular issues that I need to be concerned about?""That can be arranged, my Lord Potter-Black," replied Ragnok, feeling relieved that he had been able to appease this young man and avoid any escalation in the potential conflict.~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Hermione arrived at outskirts of Godric's Hollow. She slowly made her way into the town, and she initially felt very uncomfortable as neared the house where Bathilda Bagshot had lived and she and Harry had been attacked by Nagini. She made her way passed the site of Harry's parent's old home, the very place where Harry received his scar. Then she headed out to the gravesite where she figured she would find him. But once she reached the graveyard there was still no sign of her best friend.Hermione was slightly puzzled, as she was sure that this was where he would come to try and 'clear his mind' as he had stated in his note. Hermione decided that perhaps she had just waited too long and that he either had returned home or he had gone somewhere else. Then she thought she heard a sound behind her and she turned around, hoping that it might be Harry.Hermione spun around to see someone.She was definitely surprised to see the person standing in front of her, "You!?""Imperio!"





--------




AN: OK, So I got this chapter done quicker than I expected. In answer to many guesses in reviews or PMs from the last chapter, the person who Hermione turned around and saw right before the end of that chapter was NOT Ron Weasley. This Chapter will make that clear...so this really isn't that much of a spoiler...Thanks for the reviews and the favorites. This chapter is a little shorter, but it kind of needed to end where it does...and I am on vacation so it is surprising I was able to get this posted at all...September 1, 1998Andromeda Tonks was feeling overwhelmed. Her day had gone from slightly busy to making her wonder how much more could she fit on her plate in just a brief amount of time. Sitting across from her was none other than Harry Potter, and he had with him two rather larger tomes. She looked at both of them, one of which she thought she would never see, the other she never expected she would ever have cause to see.She shook her head as she tried to come to grips with what he was asking. "Harry, this will take a little while, you do know that, don't you?"Harry gave her a crooked smile, "Andy, I have no idea what's in either of those two books. Hell, I had no idea either of those books existed until Ragnok told me about them. I figured the goblins might know something about the rules of being the head of and ancient and noble house, and I'm not about to ask the ministry, nothing against Shack, but considering the way they've treated me over the years, I really don't want to go there."Andromeda gave him a smile, "I can certainly understand that, Harry." She looked back at the Rules of House Black tome, and lightly touched it with her fingers, almost expecting that the book would hex her just for touching it.Harry looked at her and added, "I did bring you back into the family, you know that, don't you."She turned back to him, "Yes, I do, and thank you, again, for that Harry." She turned back to face the tome. "I think that the rules of House Black would be the most restrictive, but then again, House Potter is an old house and we just might be surprised." She turned back to Harry. "You do have quite the dilemma facing you, and with being the last heir, or more specifically, the last Potter, that may affect everything greatly. And you tell me you have two potential young ladies."Harry blushed slightly at the comment, "Well, that is a bit of a long story."Andromeda nodded and smiled at him, "I don't mean to embarrass you, but I do need to know their names, as their backgrounds may affect things based on the family rules."Harry raised an eyebrow, "I hadn't thought of that."Andromeda smiled again, "That's why you have me as a solicitor for you, Harry. You let me worry about that while I review all of this for you."There was an awkward silence for a moment until Harry realised that Andy was still waiting for him to tell her the names of the two girls. "Oh, yeah, the girls, or young women, one is Susan Bones, she was in Hufflepuff, and her aunt was Amelia Bones.""Yes, I know who Amelia Bones was," said Andromeda as she interrupted Harry. "Susan is definitely of pureblood descent and she is also the last of her family line. That could be important. And who, may I ask, is the other?"Harry nodded as he listened to what Andromeda was saying, and he realised he hadn't really considered the backgrounds of either of the girls very much other than what house they had been in at Hogwarts. Harry suddenly felt very naive about all of this. "Oh, well, the other girl is Daphne Greengrass, she was in Slytherin in school, I think she may have had a sister. I don't know much else about her family."Andromeda thought for a moment. "I think, and if I am not mistaken, that her father is Cyrus Greengrass, and that she and her sister have no brothers, and that they may be the only descendants and the last of their line."Harry wondered aloud, "Does that affect things for either House Potter or House Black?""It may or it may not, but it does make a difference for their own houses," explained Andromeda. "I may have to get specific information from the goblins, if they even have it, about the rules for those two houses in particular."Harry seemed a little uncomfortable with the idea of getting information about either of the girls' families.Andy picked up on this, "Don't worry Harry, we would only be asking for information that would be easily available, not asking for family secrets."Harry seemed to relax at this.Andromeda leaned back in her chair and took a deep breath and then gave Harry a serious look. "I do have something I need to share with you though," she added. "Kingsley came by recently to speak with me. He wanted to know if I knew where you were. He's worried about you. I'm sure you're aware that there are those who are looking for you, and they don't just want to say 'hi'. I won't be his spy for him, or for anyone else, Harry. You're my grandson's godfather, you're family, you're the Lord of my House."Harry was moved by what she said, "I trust you Andy, and I thank you for sharing that with me.""There's more Harry," she added, "he also wanted me to look into some unusual transactions going on at Gringotts. So I will be busy with that as well as delving into these tomes. You're my first priority though. And no, I haven't broken any ministry secrets by telling you this because Shack came here unofficially to speak with me, and as I said, you're my head of house, so my loyalty is with you first."Harry smiled, "That means a lot to hear you say that. This being the head of house is new to me, I guess I really don't know what that all means just yet.""It doesn't mean that much for House Potter yet when you're the only Potter in the world right now," she added with a laugh. "You do have a place on the Wizengamot, actually two. You might even get multiple invitations to balls and special events if some people aren't careful because of your two titles. Officially your godson is a Lupin, he isn't related to you, and you haven't made him an heir. You have two houses, two potential girl friends, and lots to deal with. I know Teddy isn't your flesh and blood, so I wouldn't expect you to name him as an heir to one of your houses or titles, but let me look over the rules first. And I don't expect you to set up an inheritance for him. Ted and I have arranged for him to have plenty. He'll be okay, I don't want you to feel like he's your responsibility. I know you better than you think I do, Harry."Harry felt a little relieved, and he honestly felt more than a little guilty about not being around to help out with Teddy. "I really don't know what to say, Andy. I'm only 18, my only experience in life seems to revolve around fighting dark wizards, not being a parent, and I wouldn't know what to do with Teddy. I'm not really sure what I'm supposed to do as a godfather."Andromeda smiled at Harry. "Be there when he needs you as he gets older. When he really needs a father figure to do something with him that I can't, I'll send him your way. I know you need to get yourself settled. And right now, it seems someone is still out to get you, and keeping Teddy out of harms way is the best thing to do, so I don't mind. Besides, it helps me to have him around, I do miss Dora and even Remus."Harry was about to ask how she was doing after the loss of Ted, but he could see she already had tears forming in her eyes and he realised that would be a bad thing to do at this time.Andromeda then suggested that Harry should go get some lunch, and she would make a quick review of the rules from both books.Harry was shocked, "You can read both large tomes that quickly?"Andromeda laughed, "No, but there are certain sections that I know I need to review, and they are not that large, so why don't you meet me back here in a couple of hours and I'll update you on what I find."~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Susan Bones' ApartmentA knock came at the door and Susan was hoping that Harry at come by to see her as she didn't have to work this evening. She opened the door and her smile and mood deflated rapidly."Hello Daphne," she said cooly."Hello Sue, do you mind if I come in?" She didn't wait for an answer as she walked past her former classmate. "We need to talk.""Oh, do we?" Susan's tone was still icy."Yes, we do, we have a problem and it is the same problem," added Daphne, ignoring Susan's cold tone.Susan sat down and waited for Daphne to say more.Daphne let out a quiet sigh as she looked at Susan. "Look, Susan, I know this isn't easy. For a Hufflepuff and a Slytherin, I thought we got along pretty well back in school, we had a number of classes together in the later years."Susan nodded, "Yes, we did, and for the record, you were actually rather nice to some of us, despite your reputation for being rather unpleasant towards some of the boys."Daphne smirked, "Only towards certain boys who were too forward with their attention to me. And by the way, it worked pretty well to keep them at bay. But the point is, when we were in school and in classes together, I thought we got along together, you were smart, and like a good Hufflepuff, I could tell you were always a good friend to those you cared about."Susan let out a deep breath, "Fine, so I can be a good friend. Now please get to the point of why you're really here.""I know how you feel about Harry, and I know neither one of us wants to give him up," said Daphne, plainly putting things out on the table.Susan became even more suspicious of the former Slytherin. She just stared at Daphne waiting for something more to be said.Daphne noted the look and she continued, "What if we don't have to?"Susan was surprised by that comment. "Excuse me?""There are old pure-blood traditions," explained Daphne."Very old, yes," agreed Susan."So, you are at least familiar with them," continued Daphne."Vaguely," admitted Susan."Tell me Susan, how many other Bones' are there," asked Daphne."I'm the last of the line, and I would think that you already knew that," stated Susan, realising where Daphne was heading with this reasoning.Daphne simply smiled before she added, "I thought so."Susan wanted to be sure she understood the Slytherin's plan, "Where are you going with this?""My sister and I are the last of the Greengrass line, there are no male heirs," she explained.Susan's attention was suddenly more focused."Two ancient families are about to die out, three if you count Potter and Harry doesn't do anything about it," added Daphne with an air of sadness in her voice."Oh, I think he ultimately plans to do something about it," commented Susan with a seriousness in her tone."Do you really think that Harry, who grew up among muggles who abused him," added Daphne, "who was sheltered from the truths and the customs of our culture by Dumbledore has the slightest clue as to the gravity of the situation, for you, for me, or even for himself?""Or for the Blacks," added Susan.Daphne blinked, "Excuse me?""He is also Lord Black," explained Susan, "did you not know that yet?""That makes it even more important then," commented Daphne, feeling her head begin to spin as she contemplated what this extra information implied. "That may make things more complicated or it may make them even easier."Susan raised an eyebrow in response. "I'm not sure I follow you.""You know how noble Harry is," added Daphne."Of course," stated Susan, trying to tone down the sarcasm in her initial response, "it's why he rescued you the other night. It's why he did everything he did while we were at Hogwarts. It's simply who he is."Daphne looked Susan in the eye, "Would Harry let a house die out if he knew he was responsible for it?""No, he would make sure he met his obligations and took care of his responsibilities, as I said, that's just who Harry is," answered Susan.Daphne sat back and let those words sink in for a moment. "Susan, I'm not sure that Harry realises it, but it could be that there really isn't a competition between us. A lot of things may depend on House Potter and House Black, and you already knew he had two houses. Things will also depend on what Harry makes of House Bones and House Greengrass. There are four houses with lines at stake here. You know it, and I know it, but dear Harry who was raised by muggles may be too clueless to have any idea what's really going on, what's really important."Susan looked warily at Daphne, whom she still considered a rival, "So, you want to be the one to tell him he needs two girlfriends?""Hardly," laughed Daphne, "telling him that outright might just make him panic. But considering he's almost been acting like he has two girlfriends for the past couple of months and it hasn't killed him makes me think he just might be able to handle it.""What if I can't handle it? I don't think I want a three way relationship," added Susan, still feeling irritated.Daphne shook her head. "Who said anything about us? We're talking about Harry here. You and Harry, Harry and me; this is about him, not about us. Until a few days ago, both of us were fine with Harry."Susan still wasn't sure what to think. Daphne could read the doubt on her face. Finally she added, "Look into the Rules of House Bones, see what you find out about your own situation. Then talk to me some more. We don't have to hate each other."Daphne got up to leave and Susan carefully looked around the room and behind her back. Daphne raised an eyebrow, "What's wrong?"Susan sighed and then smiled, "Daphne, I want to believe you, but you're still from the House of Slytherin. I'm just looking for the knife you're about to leave in my back."Daphne slumped her shoulders slightly. "Susan, I hope that someday you'll be able to learn to trust me. Back when we were at school, I thought we were friends and that you could trust me."Susan smiled weakly, "That was when we studied together, long before we were both interested in the same boy."Daphne smiled slightly, "Don't fool yourself, I saw the way you've looked at Harry ever since second year."Susan blushed slightly then she thought about Daphne's words as she walked away. "Wait a minute Daphne, did you just admit that you've liked him since then too?"Daphne smirked as the door was closing behind her, "Susan, I was in Slytherin, of course I never could have liked Harry Potter, that would have been so wrong back then." She winked at Susan as the door finally closed and then she turned and left with a smile on her face.~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Hogwarts ExpressTheodore Nott and Pansy Parkinson had a compartment all to themselves. Very few students would come in and speak with them, although occasionally they would venture out by themselves and see others on the train, making brief stops into other compartments, chatting with other students, and not just with other Slytherins.If asked later, the students would all easily recall that the conversations all seemed to be about anything other than the recent war. In fact everyone returning to Hogwarts or going to the school for the first time were excited about the new school year. The atmosphere was one of hope. A hope for a school year filled with excitement, and without fear.Those students who were returning to repeat their seventh years were regaling the younger students with tales of Harry Potter, The-Boy-Who-Won. Rumours and half truths were as good as first hand eyewitness accounts to many of the new students. The older students recalled the stories of how Harry defeated a troll as a mere first year, how he seemed to be able to control snakes as a second year, how he reportedly defeated over one hundred dementors as a third year.While many students didn't believe all of those tales, they all wanted to hear about his prowess at playing seeker, how he could handle a broom unlike any other wizard, perhaps even better than famous international Quidditch star Viktor Krum. His amazing skills that were evident from the first time he got on a broom as a first year, and how he became the youngest seeker in over a century at Hogwarts. The stories of his greatest Quidditch matches over the years. 'Was it true he once caught a snitch with his mouth?' 'My brother told me he pulled off a Wronski Feint!' 'Is it true he was attacked by a rogue bludger?' 'My older sister said he was attacked by dementors while playing one time!'And then there were the stories of how he out flew a dragon during the first task of the Tri-Wizard Tournament. Then they went on to tell how he rescued multiple hostages during the second task of the tournament. Then of course came the questions about the third and final task. Everyone knew that Harry won the tournament, and that the Diggory boy and died, and that supposedly the Dark Lord returned at the end of the tournament. The ministry initially claimed it was a lie, but by the time Potter's fifth year was over, Harry's story was proven true, for by then the war had started.Some students told stories of how Harry taught them in the secret class, the DA. Others told stories of the Battle of Hogwarts, and how he defeated He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named. But everyone spoke about how he seemed to have disappeared since then. Well, that was until he was attacked in muggle London by a rogue Death Eater and everyone had read about that in the Daily Prophet.Part way through the trip, a door opened into a compartment where three Ravenclaw 6th year girls were catching up after being away from school over the summer."Hey, there you are Greengrass," stated the older girl who walked in, "I've been looking all over for you.""Hi Pansy," Astoria said as she returned the greeting. The other two girls tried to fade into their seats at the presence of the girl who was notorious for her participation in the Inquisitorial Squad from three years prior and in working with the Carrows from just a year ago."So, how come Daphne didn't come back to school this year?" she asked as she sat down on the bench next to the younger Greengrass sister.Astoria was trying her best not to irritate Parkinson but also not to give away any information she had. "Daphne just up and disappeared, it's been hard to have any contact with her since then. What little I have heard from her was a brief and vague message about trying to secure her future. I really have no idea what she even meant by that."Pansy sat back and laughed. "Oh my! That's wonderful! Such a Slytherin girl she really is that Daphne. She's working on latching on to someone, probably a rich old man and she plans to steal all of his money. I mean inherit all of his money." Pansy's eyes were glowing with excitement. "No wonder we haven't heard a thing from her!" Pansy turned back to Astoria, "The next time you speak with Daphne, you give her a message for me. I think the muggle phrase is 'You Go Girl!' That about sums it up." She then looked at the other two girls in the compartment with Astoria and quickly sized them up. She didn't recognise either of their families as being particularly old so she figured it wouldn't be worth the risk to try and talk up the Shadow Lord so she decided to move on.After she left Astoria breathed a big sigh of relief and her two friends just shook their heads in disgust.~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~The "Abandoned" WarehouseThe Shadow Lord had returned to his warehouse 'hideout' after his little mission of the day before. It was one of the few times he had actually left his little 'hideout' to do his own work. His new 'puppet' had been given their orders, but he didn't want to rush that plan too quickly. It needed time to develop, like a good pot of tea or perhaps a good bottle of wine. Yes, he would savour the moment that particular plan came to it's forgone conclusion, but he needed to continue getting the rest of his plans in motion. There was still so many areas that needed to be addressed.He recalled that the Daily Prophet continued to confirm his earlier suspicions, that Potter and Malfoy were somehow linked as they had together taken down Crabbe. He knew that the DMLE had captured the two Death Eaters that he had sent to 12 Grimmauld Place, but all they had managed to glean from them was some vague notion of the Shadow Lord, but he knew they would not be able to give the ministry any truly useful information.Now he needed to start to gather some more of the Death Eaters who remained at large. The few who had survived the battle and who had been able to remain at large were hearing the rumours of this Shadow Lord, and they had slowly been learning the secret of how to find him. And once they found him, they would each be given their own private mission, unrelated to any other mission, so as not to compromise any of his other plans. So far everything had been going just as he had planned. He did not worry about the demise of Crabbe, because Crabbe was foolish and actually not a very powerful wizard. He was blinded by his rage over his son. But his actions had proven to be useful as it had helped to identify a general location for both Potter and Malfoy. A useful sacrifice was still useful. While Crabbe did have a brilliant idea, he just acted on it too fast, and he was clearly outclassed and unprepared to take on Potter and Malfoy.The Shadow Lord smiled to himself as he knew that he would also be getting fresh young recruits as he had his youngest converts working on the Hogwarts Express, seeking out possible followers from among the disgruntled children of parents who died during the war who were currently imprisoned. A change in ministry policies would not cause an immediate change in long held ideologies, and he was counting on that to lend him support in his planned revenge against those who stood in the way of the Dark Lord and the things he stood for.Biding his time, waiting for the opportune moment to strike back and gain his revenge is what he had been doing, and like any good Slytherin, the proper plan of cunning and intrigue could and would wait so as to be most effective.There was a knock on the door to the warehouse, and the wards allowed the person to enter. The man made his way back to the chamber and approached the Shadow Lord."Ah, it is good to see you again, Selwyn. The information you gave me yesterday proved to be quite valuable. The tracking charm on Granger worked perfectly," stated the Shadow Lord. "However, she did recognise me as I cast the Imperius Curse on her."Selwyn bowed his head, "My lord, I can track her and be rid of her for us if that is your wish.""Don't be a fool Selwyn," spat the Shadow Lord. "Once under the Imperius Curse it was a simple matter to make her forget who placed her under the curse. She has her orders and she should be carrying them out shortly."Selwyn raised his head and smiled broadly. "So, it should be finished soon, then?"The Shadow Lord growled in response, "Nothing is finished! There is still much that needs to be done. Have you contacted the two mercenaries? Have they prepared the little gift offering for tomorrow?""That has been arranged, with no connection to us, and everything should go as planned, my Lord," responded Selwyn.The Shadow Lord looked at him and then dismissed him, "Fine, fine, now leave and make your self scarce for some time. You should not be seen anywhere near England for at least two weeks, and then make sure you are not spotted by anyone from the ministry, especially the DMLE when you make your way back. Follow Potter's lead, live among muggles, travel the muggle way. It may be slower that way, but it will keep you out of the ministry's watchful eye."Selwyn nodded and silently made his way back out of the warehouse.The Shadow Lord sat down and rubbed his hand over the scar on the side of his face. "Tomorrow," he said out loud, although he was the only one in his chamber, "tomorrow my revenge begins against those who gave me this scar. And they will never see me coming. They will have no warning. We'll see who is laughing when this is all said and done."~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Later that afternoon, Harry returned to meet with Andromeda. "Well, I managed to find some interesting things about both of your houses, Harry," she began.Harry had been anxiously waiting to hear what she had discovered. "Is this good or bad?"Andy gave a wry grin, "Well, if we start with House Black, either Sirius had no idea what he was doing when he made you his heir, or this was the biggest prank he could think of before he died."Harry was startled by this revelation. "What?"Andromeda sighed as she began to explain, "As heir to both being Lord Potter and Lord Black, there are some difficulties. The houses have some unique rules. The Black Family Charter is quite clear — it will not allow the family to mix."Harry was confused. "What exactly does that mean?"Andromeda took a deep breath. "You need separate wives, or at least if you have someone who is to be Lady Black, she cannot have any other titles. She cannot bear children that would be heirs to any other house, but there is one exception to that rule."Harry was puzzled by what he just heard. "Excuse me, but that does that really mean?"Andromeda continued and ignored the question, "The interesting thing is the Potter family charter allows for the opposite."Harry shook his head, "I'm still lost here, Andy."Andromeda tried to explain more clearly, "If you have multiple titles, it allows you to have one wife and divide the titles among your children, the Black family does not allow you to do that, you can only pass the Black family title through one wife. There is a secondary clause to that, but that is rare."Harry felt like his head was going to explode as he considered all of this information. "What kind of clause is that?""Well, it is perhaps a tertiary clause," she added."Huh?"Andromeda added, "The secondary clause is that the Lady Black has to be a pure-blood.""What!?" exclaimed Harry. Then after a moment he added, "I guess that should have been a no brainer."Andromeda tilted her head as she smiled at him, "Hey, I didn't write the family charter, I'm only telling you what the magic within this tome has decreed.""So, I have to marry a pure-blood," he stated sullenly."Yes," agreed Andromeda, and then she continued with the explanation, "and the tertiary clause allows you to name a second or third son as heir to her family line to prevent it from dying out if there are no other heirs in that family, but you cannot continue another family line of your own, such as Potter, through that same wife."Harry shook his head feeling confused. "That sounds bizarre.""Yes, it does," agreed Andromeda, "but it may go back to dowry's from of old, or a bride price that may have once been paid, and somehow it must have become part of the magic. It may have simply been put in place to help foster alliances."Harry wasn't sure what to make of the rule. But it was a rule. And one he apparently didn't have any choice about. "So, if I had two titles, one Potter, and one from another house that wasn't Black, I could have one wife, but since the second house is Black, because of the Black family rules or charter, I have to have a second wife just for the Black family."Andromeda nodded in agreement, and then she spoke softly, "There is another option. You could choose to let the Black family die out. You could end the line with you." She sat there waiting to see what Harry would do with this new information.Harry sat still for a few minutes before he asked her, "Could I give the title to someone else who is within the Black family?"Andromeda considered the question. "That could be done, but there could be serious consequences. First of all, it would possibly bring disgrace to Sirius' memory, dishonour his naming you as his heir. Second, you would be giving up your heritage and all of Black Family possessions. There could be other consequences as well, but it would not be advisable. I would have to research that further within the tome.""But Sirius gave the title to me," pondered Harry."You were his godson," explained Andromeda, "he had a relationship with you. He had no heirs, and you have Black blood in you. That was how he made you his heir and you were accepted as the head of the House of Black."Harry thought about what she had to say. "So, either I take a separate wife for House Potter and House Black, or I end the line of one of those houses."Andromeda remained silent for a time before she continued, "It is a curious thing, magic. There are advantages to being Lord Potter and advantages to being Lord Black. Those two houses have never been aligned so closely before in history. Oh, there have been minor alliances in the past, the closest the two houses have ever been was when your grandfather wed Dorea Black. That was a fairly large scandal for the time, and House Potter was considered fairly neutral. But House Black was firmly rooted in Pureblood supremacy, and House Potter had been known to allow their sons to marry muggleborns on more than one occasion."Harry puzzled over this statement. "But if that were the case, then how would House Black accept me as Lord Black, if I am a half blood?"Andromeda sat back and pondered this for a moment. "There are three possibilities that come to mind most readily, but I will give you four options to consider." Harry nodded that he was ready to hear her opinions on this matter."First, is that Lily, your mother, was not truly a muggle born, but that she was actually a pure-blood but that somehow we did not know her true ancestry. The second option is that at some point Sirius may have done a blood adoption of you, making you his full heir, and thus making you acceptable to the Black family rules of succession. The third option is that due to your deeds of valour in conquering Tom Riddle, that magic itself recognises you to be a powerful enough wizard that you have earned the right to carry the mantle of being named Lord Black."Harry considered the three options, and realized that there were holes in all three arguments. Then he looked at Andromeda as he asked her, "What was the fourth option you said you would mention?"Andy laughed as she answered, "Ah, the fourth, that is simply that magic has its own explanation and it is a mystery that we do not know, but yet you have the title and you are recognised as Lord Black. But what matters right now is this Harry: You have control over the wards over 12 Grimmauld Place, the Black ancestral home. Kreacher obeys you as the Head of House. You have access to the Black Family Vaults. You have access to the Black Family Rule Book. You need no further proof, magic itself has accepted you as Lord Black. Why no longer matters, for you are Lord Black."Harry shook his head in bewilderment. "Well, now I still need to deal with the fact that I have two lordships, two potential girlfriends and I need…" His voice trailed off.Andromeda looked at him and smiled. "Part of your problem may be solved, if the two young ladies can understand your dilemma as well as you do."Harry held his head in hands. "Why does my life always need to be so complicated?"~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Hogwarts ExpressWhile many students were discussing the fantastic tales of Harry Potter, there were rumours spreading among the students of the former Death Eaters about a new movement led by the mysterious Shadow Lord. The students were being careful to only speak to each other in one on one situations, so as not to draw attention to each other, and they always used the cover of consoling each other over the loss of a family member or concern over a family member being locked away in prison. Many of the students quickly learned that the key individuals to speak with were Pansy Parkinson and Theodore Nott, but for anyone who was observing these conversations, it was simply close families consoling each other. There was nothing unusual about this cover and as they were not assembling in groups, the professors and the prefects were not becoming suspicious of a developing movement in the upcoming new school year.~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Harry arrived back at his apartment after several meetings with Andromeda Tonks. He was feeling overwhelmed with what he had learned about being both Lord Potter and Lord Black, and he knew he was not ready to meet with either Susan or Daphne. As he walked into the flat he made his way to the kitchen and grabbed a bottle of water and then he took a seat on one of the stools at the kitchen bar.Draco heard him enter and he joined him at the bar with a bottle of water as well. "So, did you figure out who you plan on dating yet?"Harry glared at Draco, "Things aren't that simple, Draco."Draco laughed at him, "Things are never simple for you, Potter."Harry rolled his eyes, "You could say that again."Draco echoed his previous statement, "Things are never simple for you, Potter."Harry reached out with his left hand and whacked Draco on the side of his head. "You prat," he called out.Draco winced and glared back at Harry, "You told me to say it again.""It's a muggle expression," explained Harry.Harry glanced over at Draco and then he noticed that his roommate seemed to be looking awful smug. "So, what's up with you?"Draco took a sip from his water bottle and looked at Harry, "Nothing."Harry shook his head, "No, come on, something's different, what's going on?"Draco could tell that Harry wasn't going to let things lie, so he admitted, "Fine, I'm working things out with someone."Harry grinned, "Wait, you found a girl, who likes you? Who actually likes you?"Draco smirked in response.Harry smiled back at his roommate, "Do I need to explain to them everything I know about you?"Draco laughed, "Too late, I think they already know all that."Harry paused as he considered the unspoken message. "Are you cutting in on one of my two potential girlfriends while I try and sort things out?"Draco put down his water bottle. "First of all, NO. Second of all, If I did, you would deserve it for treating them like dirt."Harry straightened up at that remark. "I'm not treating anyone like dirt, or at least not intentionally."Draco ignored Harry's protest, "Third, in case the first part wasn't clear, its neither of them."Harry shook his head again trying to figure out who Draco could possibly be dating. "Draco, I can count, and you don't need to repeat yourself, which tells me you've got it bad for someone whom you claim I know.""Oh, you know her," he admitted, "and you have to understand, that she's of age, and she is old enough to make her own decisions.""Fine, fine," said Harry, relenting to his comments, "just tell me what witch in her seemingly right mind would consent to even consider dating you."Draco then added, "Do me a favour first."Harry had a confused look on his face."Humour me," stated Draco, "put your wand on the table, out of reach, and move to the other side of the room."Harry stared at Draco, "You know how I feel about being unarmed, especially after the other night.""All right, I'll put my wand down, too," said Draco, "if that will make you feel better."The two then placed their wands on the table and stepped backwards.Harry then asked, "Is this really necessary?"Harry kept eyeing the table, Draco kept his eyes on Harry and Draco responded to Harry's question "Hopefully not."Harry finally looked up at Draco, "So why all the drama?"Draco took a deep breath before quickly stating, "It seems that I've finally managed to hook up with Hermione."Harry's draw dropped and he just stared for a minute. "Draco, I think we need to get you to St. Mungo's. Have you ever had Dragon Pox? I think you must be delirious. I could have sworn that you just claimed that you've hooked up with Hermione."The two then sat down in chairs across from each other, with an uneasiness settling over the room"No, Harry, I'm serious about this," replied Draco, "and I wanted you to hear about it from me first."Harry shook his head in bewilderment. "That is the most illogical thing I have ever heard, it makes less sense than her and Ron."Draco glared at Harry. "Now that was low, and no it doesn't, I would never treat her that way."Harry paused to think about that, "Okay, you may have a point there, but you have treated her horribly in the past.""And she punched me in the face once," countered Draco, "and no, that doesn't make us even, and that's not the point. I've been trying to explain to her for months that I have changed. Can either one of you point out how the Weasel has changed in the past seven years? For the better that is.""But, you and Hermione," stated Harry feeling numb, "I'm still trying to wrap my mind around that one."A knock came on the door, interrupting their conversation.They both yelled, "It's open, come on in."Hermione walked into the room. She noticed that Harry and Draco were sitting down on opposite sides of the room, and they both had left their wands sitting on the table in front of them. She immediately began to draw her wand.~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~AN: Cliffhanger, again. I know, how rotten of me.





--------




AN: Here is the next chapter. I've tried to proof read it several times, so hopefully the grammar and typos won't be too much of a problem. I will deal with the issue of Susan Bones' status in one of the upcoming chapters...so to the reviewer (you know who you are) you were correct - Susan is listed as being a half blood although most of her family are pure-bloods...Hermione walked into the room. She noticed that Harry and Draco were sitting down on opposite sides of the room, and they both had left their wands sitting on the table in front of them. She immediately began to draw her wand.Harry and Draco stared at her, wondering what was going on.Hermione looked at Harry and he could tell that she was struggling with something. She pointed her wand at him, and Draco moved to get his wand.Hermione screamed at both of them. "Don't move, don't even say a word."The two wizards froze again."Accio wands!" she shouted and both of their wands flew to her hand.Harry and Draco both muttered under their breath as they wondered what the bloody hell was going on. Harry looked her in the eyes and he could tell she was fighting a curse."You can fight it, Hermione!" shouted Harry."I told you to stay quiet!" she yelled back at him, now pointing her wand in his direction."She did say that," agreed Draco."You too, you jerk," said Hermione as she turned and faced Draco, pointing her wand at him now.Harry looked at Draco and smirked as Hermione never called people names like that.But that got Harry thinking: what was she doing, was she fighting the imperius curse, or was she waiting for something else to happen. The sweat forming on her brow convinced him that she was fighting the curse. He remembered when he first threw off the curse from the fake Mad-Eye that it seemed like it took forever, and he had to concentrate very hard. Hermione was frustrated that she was unable to do it then, but here she was, apparently under an imperius curse again, and actively fighting it. Harry watched her eyes for a minute and then he watched as her wand which was pointed back at him began to waver, then she seemed to become a little unsteady on her feet.While this was going on Draco kept looking back and forth between Harry and Hermione.Silently Harry summoned a vase from the side of the room, which made it smash into the chair that Draco was sitting in. The sudden crash caused everyone other than Harry to jump. Hermione quickly turned on Harry, "How did you do that?""Do what? I didn't do anything," he protested, "you have my wand, and I didn't say a thing."Hermione furrowed her brow. "You must have cast a spell silently. I ought to stun you now. I'm supposed to…""You're supposed to do what?" asked Harry."I'm supposed to do what I was told to do," she said as she was clearly struggling. "Stop talking to me and trying to confuse me." Suddenly she fired a blasting hex and destroyed the table that was in between Harry and Draco where their wands had been just a few minutes before.Draco stared at the remnants of the table and then turned to look at Hermione. "Hey, you may be pissed at me for yesterday, but really, we can talk this out."Hermione glared at him as she yelled, "Try talking this out!" She cast another hex at him, but Draco dove for the floor as the back of his chair was blown away.Harry stood up from his chair. "You can continue to fight it Hermione, you don't have to give in, you're stronger than whoever told you to do this.""What to you know about anything?" she snapped back at Harry."I know you, and you know I've been able to throw off the imperius curse before," he said calmly, "and I believe that you have the strength within you to do it too."Hermione used the sleeve of her arm that was holding her wand to wipe the sweat off of her forehead."Obeying the curse is a lie, Hermione," said Harry, this time his words were more forceful. "You can be your own person, listen to your own mind, make your own decisions, don't let anyone tell you what to do. Not me, not Draco, not whomever it was who put you under that curse!"Hermione pointed her wand at Harry. In her mind she heard the words over and over again, and they sounded so soothing, 'Go back and find Potter and Malfoy, and when you do, kill them and let us know where they live. That's all you have to do.' Harry could see her wand start to waver again. "But it hurts so much to not obey, to not follow the commands," she said with tears now streaming down her face."Drop your wand, and we'll take care of you," said Harry softly, "it will be okay, everything will be okay. You can do what you want to do, not what someone else tells you to do."Hermione looked at Harry and then she looked at Draco. Her wand wavered between the two then slowly she pointed her wand towards the floor and then finally she dropped it. She stared at her wand and she collapsed to the floor. Draco was the first one to her side. She had not lost consciousness but she was still very weak. The two young men helped her over to the sofa.Once she was lying still, she looked up at Harry, "How do you do it so easily?"Harry shrugged his shoulders, "If you mean by 'do it' to throw off the imperius curse, it's not easy. It's never easy to throw of that curse.""How did you know?" asked Draco as he looked over at Harry.Hermione and Harry looked back at Draco. Harry then asked, "Wasn't it obvious she wasn't acting like her self?"Harry then picked up all of the wands and tossed Draco's wand back to him. He then turned back to Hermione and spoke gently to her. "What happened, who did this to you, and what did they tell you to do?"Hermione just started to sob, "I really can't remember much of anything."Draco looked hurt, "You came after us, here in our apartment. You sure looked like you wanted to kill us."Hermione tried to calm herself down. "I'm not sure who it was, it wasn't someone I recognised, or at least I can't remember who it was, or maybe they made me forget who it was." She started to cry again and Draco knelt down next to her and tried to comfort her.Harry felt uncomfortable watching this, watching Draco Malfoy being the one to comfort his best friend.After a minute she was calmer and she began to explain a little more about what had transpired the previous day. She looked up at Harry, "I went to search for you, I knew you went to be by yourself, that you had left to think things through, and I wanted to make sure you were okay. Draco and I found the note that you had left, so I figured that you probably went to Godric's Hollow, but somehow somebody must have followed me there.""Just a moment," interrupted Harry. He then waved his wand over her, and his face turned into a frown. "You've got a tracking charm on you, like a muggle homing device."Draco then ran to their balcony, and checked the perimeter of the apartment, then he came back inside."I didn't find any evidence of anyone else coming near here," he announced."Why would they," commented Harry, "they wouldn't have a reason to come here so quickly.""They're probably waiting to see if I completed my mission," added Hermione as her eyes watered up again.Draco asked, "Your mission?""Yes, to kill the two of you," she said as she broke down in tears again.Harry brought the conversation back to the risk they all were facing. "So, we don't even know who was trying to control you, we only know what they did, and we can presume why.""And we need to remove the tracking charm," added Draco"Yes, please," agreed Hermione"I think that the tracking charm was placed first," commented Harry, "that would be how they found you at Godric's Hollow.""Obviously," commented Draco, mimicking his late godfather. He then considered that the tracking charm must have already been on Hermione. "If whoever put that curse on Hermione placed the tracking charm on her before she went looking for you at Godric's Hollow, then they probably already know where we live."Harry considered his words. "Good point, however, they can't get in here very easily. Hermione could, which is why they used her to attack us. But we might want to consider moving somewhere else, just to be safe."Hermione looked up at Harry, "Where would you move?" She looked back and forth between the two young men. "This is all my fault, and I have no idea how or when someone could have placed that tracking charm on me."She was about to start to cry again when Harry knelt down to hug her. "Hermione, it's not your fault. You've been in and out of the magical world, you've been busy with so many things. Someone could have tagged you with that curse from across the street for all we know, or in the middle of a crowd. It's not like wizards and witches everywhere don't know who you are and won't figure out you'll have contact with me at some point."Draco smirked, "And if they wanted to get at me, the Daily Prophet kind of announced that we might be found together. They just helped someone's nefarious plot move along. No one here is blaming you for anything."Harry sat back in a chair as he stared at the odd sight in front of him, his best friend, Hermione Granger, being comforted by his former bitter rival. "You two do understand how unusual this looks, don't you?"Hermione put a hand to her mouth, "Oh my, Harry, I never had the chance to tell you. Draco and I, we had this argument, and then we actually calmed down and we…"Draco interrupted her. "Hermione, it's okay, I already tried to explain things to Scarhead. Since I'm still here and talking with you, I think he might be okay with things. He hasn't hexed me yet.""It is a rather unexpected development," Harry added, "you have to admit that yourselves.""It is a bit unconventional," agreed Hermione."After all, his aunt did leave you with an unpleasant scar," added Harry.Draco glared at Harry. "There was nothing I could do about that," he replied in protest.Hermione looked away and rubbed her forearm where Bellatrix had cut the word "mudblood" into her skin.Draco could see that she was getting upset by Harry bringing up the painful memories.Harry could sense Draco's irritation. "I know you say you've changed, and that you've convinced Hermione that you have. And I really don't mean to be causing a problem for the two of you. And maybe I'm out of line, but Hermione is like a sister to me, and so maybe I'm being a little over protective of her."Harry paused as he noted Hermione had turned to stare at him, wondering where Harry was going with his little monologue.Harry continued, "But you two have major issues to deal with. I know you said you worked some of them out yesterday. Hey, that's brilliant and I'm happy for you if this works out. But as her unofficial brother, I have some questions for you, and maybe this isn't the right time, but before this goes much further, I think Hermione needs some answers."Hermione looked at Harry and mouthed the words, "What are you talking about?"Draco caught on to what Harry was referring to. "I think he means your parents house, the Death Eater raid."Hermione turned and looked at Draco. She closed her eyes and bit her lip for a moment. She stood up and walked over to where Harry was and slapped him once. "I don't think I was ready to hear about it," she said. Then she sat down in front of him. "But now I do need to hear about it, since Harry so kindly brought it up. So, little brother, hold me while Draco tells me all about what happened. I want to hear it, and I want to hear it now."Draco shook his head as he prepared to tell the tale of what happened that night. He looked at his new girlfriend and let out a long breath. "Please, understand things were difficult for me at the time. And please, hear me out, listen to the entire story before you cast judgment."Hermione bit a knuckle on one finger as she nodded while Harry engulfed her in a hug.Draco took another deep breath. "The Dark Lord sent a team of Death Eaters to attack your family at the end of the summer. It consisted of Professor Snape who led the way, as he had your address, being the new Head Master, my Aunt Bellatrix, and several new recruits. Once we arrived at your parents house, they sent me in first, to see if any one was inside, as I 'knew' you best. And yes, I did go in first. The first floor was empty, as you well know. I was then sent up stairs to investigate the other rooms. I found your room first, I saw your empty trunk and many of your belongings, some of your books and things. Obviously you had some toys, stuffed animals, typical girly things."Draco paused and looked away. Hermione had tears streaking down her face. Harry conjured a handkerchief for her to wipe her tears.Draco then continued with his story. "I then made my way back down stairs and told everyone that there was no sign of anyone in the house. No one really expected to find you there, Hermione, as you hadn't been seen after the ordeal at the wedding and then later that same day when you spoke the taboo name and they sent a couple of Death Eaters after the three of you." Draco laughed slightly. "Those two fools actually thought it would be a piece of cake to take you three down."Harry cast a glare at Draco, "We were discussing Hermione's home, not what happened at some bloody cafe.""Tottenham Court Road," added Hermione. The other two just looked her. Hermione rolled her eyes, "The Luchino Caffe on the Tottenham Court Road, that's where we had the duel with those two bloody Death Eaters who tracked us down because you said Voldemort's name."Harry shook his head, "But that has nothing to do with the story, 'Mione.""Oh, right," she said and bit her lip.Harry looked at Draco and tried to silently apologise for her."Right," said Draco as he began again. "Well, I came down stairs and told everyone else that no one was there. Aunt Bellatrix went spare. Snape simply raised an eyebrow and turned and walked away. The others, well, they all started casting any sort of spell they could think of that might cause some sort of damage. I just followed my godfather and we apparated away."Hermione stopped her tears and looked at Draco. After a minute of silence she nearly shrieked at him. "That's all you did? That's all you could do? Walk away while that crazy bitch did who knows what to my house, to my belongings, to my things, to my parents things."Harry could feel her get ready to stand up as her muscles started to tense.Draco was obviously feeling remorse for what he did, or at least it was obvious to Harry. He held his hands up as he continued to try to explain things. "They burned the house down. Bellatrix never went upstairs. And no one defiled any of your belongings, there was no way anyone could have done that."Hermione glared at Draco. "How could you be so sure? You just said you walked away!"Draco slowly stood up, as he said, "Please, wait right here, I have something to show you."He then turned and walked into his room. A moment later he came back, first he conjured a new table to replace the one that Hermione had destroyed earlier. Then he placed a small item on the new table in front of Hermione. Draco then touched it with his wand and the shrinking spell on it reversed. Hermione's old school trunk returned to its original size and it appeared to be in the same condition it had been in when she last saw it before she left for the Burrow last summer.Hermione looked back and forth between Draco and the trunk. "This is more than a little strange," she said.Draco raised an eyebrow. "The shrinking charm I cast on it was done in such a way that the trunk could not be returned to normal if it was not in your presence."Hermione was shocked to hear this revelation."Why? Why would you do something like that? That was last summer. You hated me back then, you considered me a mudblood, something worse than dirt," said Hermione, amazed at what she was looking at in front of her, too much in shock to even touch her trunk."Who ever said I hated you? Was I mean to you? Yes, that much I freely admit," stated Draco. "We already covered the use of the word, that I will not repeat in your presence. I told you yesterday that I am trying to change. I did this for you," he said as he waved his hand in front of the chest. "I tried to gather up as much of your personal belongings as I could. I figured if anyone else came up I could always explain that you must have packed in a rush at some point during the summer, either before or after that Weasley wedding with the French tart."Hermione looked at the trunk and then back at Draco. "You still haven't answered my question. Why? Why did you do it?"Draco stood there motionless and speechless for a moment, then he started to shift uncomfortably for a bit. "I supposed it was a combination of things, but mostly, for some reason, I felt the need to protect you, even back then." Draco turned away from her at that point and started to walk towards his room."Draco, wait," she called out as she stood up, pushing away from Harry, "that's nothing to be ashamed of. That was the most noble thing anyone has ever done for me."Harry bit his tongue and decided not to bring up stories about trolls or basilisks at this moment.Draco stopped where he was but he didn't turn around."I still feel like I should hate you," began Hermione, "just for being there when they destroyed my home. I mean, that was the home I grew up in, I have so many memories from there." Then she looked over at the trunk on the table. "But I understand you had no choice, no one really had much of a choice if he told you that you had to go…"Draco turned around and faced her now. Hermione could see that he was upset and that his eyes were wet. She understood that this was hard for him, she understood that he had years of being a prideful pureblooded wizard. She pointed at the trunk on the table. "Most of my memories are probably found inside that trunk, Draco. You have no idea what this means to me.""I did it on a whim," he said softly. "I ran into that house, knowing what was going to happen, that anyone inside would be killed, and that the house would be destroyed, and I thought for a brief moment, what would I think if this was my house and people were about to destroy everything I cared about. Maybe that was the moment things started to change for me." He turned and cast a spell on the trunk to unlock it and once again he moved to retreat into his room.Hermione went to follow him, but Harry grabbed her arm and stopped her. "Let him go," he whispered. "Give him some time, this is difficult for him. He was expecting rejection from you."Hermione spun around to face Harry, "What? Why? But I didn't!" she protested. She turned back and just stared at the closed door to Draco's room.Harry gently put a hand on his best friend's shoulder. "I would suspect that Draco's probably even worse at this emotional stuff than I am. He probably just needs some time. He needs to come to grips with everything you both have said to each other. Hell, he's still probably trying to figure out why he put all of your stuff in your trunk in the first place last summer."Hermione just whispered, "But he did, he saved my things from the Death Eaters.""Yes, he did," said Harry."And I told him that I hated him," she said."I thought you did that before you snogged him silly," added Harry.Hermione turned and slapped Harry on his arm, "Shut up, you prat.""You two need to get beyond your past words to each other or this will never work," commented Harry, "you do know that."Hermione let out an uncomfortable laugh, "And when did you become so great at giving out relationship advice?"Harry gave her a gentle hug, "By learning from my best friend." Hermione responded by laying her head on Harry's shoulder.After a few minutes of standing there, comforting his best friend, Harry realised it was getting late, and his stomach was getting louder. He looked at Hermione as he said, "I have no idea how much longer your ferret is going to be, but I for one can do with something to eat. How about I order us some takeaway? There's a decent Chinese place nearby, they even deliver."Hermione smiled at him. "Sure, sounds great. Be sure to order enough for everyone."Harry raised an eyebrow, "Of course, I'm not that rude."~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~At the warehouse:A man in dark robes stood before the Shadow Lord, "What time will everything be taking place tomorrow?"The Shadow Lord smiled behind his hood, not that anyone would have been able to see his response. "If everything happens according to schedule, the grand event should occur at approximately 11 in the morning."The other man replied, "But why wait until now?"Unlike his former master, he didn't punish people for questioning his plans. "Less likely to hurt children. Who knows if any good pureblood children might be around at the time. Now, if there were to be blood traitors as collateral damage, that would be acceptable, but I want to limit the collateral damage that might happen to the purebloods. That is why I waited until school started. Now, you need to start on the next plan, have you located the next target?"The man gulped as he had not accomplished his goal yet. "She is not staying in the old family manor, we are still trying to locate her."The Shadow Lord turned away as he spoke. "Work harder on locating her, then. If Granger fails, she will be our next pawn. Now leave."~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~The following morning Harry woke up after sleeping on the couch, again. Hopefully letting a young woman use his bedroom wouldn't lead to the same misunderstandings as the last time that occurred. Harry proceeded into the kitchen and started to make breakfast for everyone. Draco soon trudged out to join him and took a seat at the kitchen bar.Rubbing the sleep from his eyes he looked around the flat. "Isn't she usually an early riser?"Harry was busy cooking up some bacon as he answered his roommate, "She's probably reading or something. I expect she'll be out shortly to get something to eat."Draco stared at the door to Harry's room. "I suppose you're right." Then he turned and looked at Harry. "I can't believe I just admitted that you're right about something. Better not be making a habit of this."Harry laughed at Draco's comment.Draco then continued in a quiet voice. "Thanks for last night, for being there to help keep her calm when I showed her the trunk and everything. I can't believe how things worked out."Harry turned around and looked at Draco. "You know, it wasn't really anything that I did, Draco. It's you, you're growing up. You've matured. You're learning to grow beyond the prejudices that were ingrained in your upbringing. You're learning how to care for another person. And besides you've shown Hermione you have more emotional range than a teaspoon."Draco raised an eyebrow at that comment, "An obscure reference to the Weasel I presume."Harry smiled, "Right in one." He then turned back to work on breakfast.A minute later Hermione made her way out to the kitchen and slid a stool up next to Draco. "Good morning," she said as she greeted him with a kiss on his cheek."I can get used to this," he said with a grin."Spare me," said Harry, with his own grin as he slid a plate full of eggs and bacon and toast in front of each of them.As they all began to eat, Harry asked them what they had planned for the day.Hermione sheepishly admitted she needed to head to the university and get registered for classes and make sure she was settled in an apartment on campus.Draco offered to help in any way he could.Hermione turned the question back on Harry, "What about you? Figured anything out about your own dilemma?""Well, I know I need to speak with them both, and I should do that today," he admitted. "And I need to talk with Gringotts about getting some place else to stay. This apartment is plenty well warded, but no offence Hermione, but I'm not sure if Draco and I are safe here anymore. And don't beat yourself up over that either, neither one of us blame you for that either."Draco gave her a hug as Harry said that to reassure her of Harry's words. Then he turned to Harry, "Maybe we can find a place close to the university where Hermione will be attending."Harry smiled, "Maybe. I'll have to see what I already own. Changing subjects again, I still need to figure out when and where I'll meet up with Susan and then Daphne, should I do it at the same time or separately, and how to contact them. It's not like I have an owl to send them a message."Hermione frowned at her friend, "Are you a wizard or not, Harry Potter? Use your patronus to contact them. Oh, and it would probably not be a good idea to speak to them together. And don't have them come over here either, considering that as you already mentioned, this location is probably compromised, you don't want either one of them getting hurt just because they're coming to see you."Harry nodded, "You're right of course. I could send them each a patronus message, probably should just meet with them at the park. Although I never met with Daphne at the park.""Hyde Park is a well known park," stated Hermione. "She's been living in London all summer, she should at least know of it by now. It shouldn't be too hard for her, she is a smart girl.""Well, then I'll make my way to Diagon Alley by eleven to meet with Gringotts, then head over to the park by one to meet with Sue, and then plan to meet with Daphne at two," said Harry."Now that sounds like a well thought out plan," added Hermione with a smile."Thanks, Hermione," replied Harry. "So, you kids, try and stay out of trouble while I'm gone."~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Harry arrived at the Leaky Cauldron a little before 11 in the morning, hoping to avoid any crowds that might be there for the mid day meal. He used a glamour charm to mask his identity as he really didn't want to be bothered by anyone either, particularly with the way things had been going lately. He was happy to make it through the pub and into Diagon Alley without any incident. He stepped into the alley and noted that it wasn't particularly crowded which wasn't too surprising considering the students had all recently returned to Hogwarts for the new school year. He then made his way to the bank to meet with his personal accounts manager so he could start looking into what other properties he might be able to use for a place to live, and if none were suitable, then perhaps he could purchase one not far from the university that Hermione would be attending.As he was about to step into the bank, he paused as he remembered to send out the patronus messages. Recalling how to use the same spell that could defend him from attacking dementors as a means of sending a message, he quietly cast the spell, 'expecto patronum' and the silvery stag issued forth. Harry gave it the command to speak to Susan Bones and tell her where to meet with him, at the Lido Cafe at Hyde Park at 1 in the afternoon. He watched as the stag dashed off, even running through buildings as it made its way towards its destination. Harry shook off the awe he experienced in watching the stag as he once again cast the spell, this time commanding the silver stag to deliver its message to Daphne Greengrass, instructing it to tell her to meet him at the Lido Cafe at Hyde Park at 2 in the afternoon. Again he watched as the second stag dashed off to deliver his message.Harry then turned and entered the bank, finally ready to begin his meeting with his account manager.Several minutes later just down the street from Gringotts Bank, two dark robed figures quickly made their way up the street and turned into Knockturn Alley. They pushed passed witches and wizards along the dark and twisting passages and disappeared into an old pub deep in the shadows of the infamous alley.Only a few minutes after that, there was a loud explosion from the front of one of the shops in Diagon Alley. People were screaming and running in various directions. Someone was calling for help. A couple of people were lying still on the ground in the middle of the alley. The sign that once was hanging proclaiming Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes lay lying on the ground. The windows to the shop were shattered.People just stood nearby in shock. Nothing like this had happened in Diagon Alley since long before the war had ended. Suddenly the initial shock wore off and people realised that there were those who were injured and people who needed to be helped. Passersby started murmuring.The witches lying in the street were simply stunned from the explosion, and were not hurt and slowly were able to get up and brush themselves off. Soon a couple of shop keepers moved towards the damaged shop to get a closer look as a couple of Aurors arrived to investigate what had happened.One of the bystanders commented, "The foolish Weasleys', probably experimenting again, they'll kill us all!"One of the Aurors was looking around the debris and quickly made a pronouncement. "This explosion did not come from within the building, someone must have placed some sort of explosive device on the outside wall, unless you saw someone cast a very strong spell into the storefront."The two Aurors then made their way through the rubble after making sure that they had magically supported the upper part of the structure so that the building would not collapse on them. The second Auror sent a patronus message to St. Mungo's notifying them they might need healers if they found any victims of the explosion within the building.Stepping inside, the first Auror cast the 'homenum revelio' spell and quickly found a body under the rubble. The two then were able to find a woman lying under a several boards which they then quickly removed."Are the healers here yet?" he asked his partner."They should be arriving any moment," replied the junior Auror, who was also assessing the injured witch. "She seems to have a broken leg.""And some internal injures in addition to a concussion," added the first Auror. "She's actually quite lucky to even be alive."There was sounds of footsteps behind them as a couple of healers arrived on the scene. The senior Auror explained the injuries which they had diagnosed and the healers immediately began to stabilise the woman."Does anyone know who she is?" asked the healer.A bystander had walked through the rubble, "I think that's Angelina Johnson, she's the fiancée to George Weasley, the shop owner."The healer never looked up as he was casting some spells, "She is seriously injured, but she is stable enough for transport to St. Mungo's. We'll need to leave now. I'll send another team right away in case you find anyone else."The Aurors made their way further into the shop. Casting the spell they couldn't find anyone else in the rubble within the shop. The senior Auror turned to the man who had identified Angelina. "Sir, are you familiar with this shop? Do you know if anyone else was inside the building, and if so where they might have been?"The gentleman rubbed his chin, "I've been in here only a couple of times, but I've heard George talk about doing research in his basement with his partner, Jordan, Lee Jordan I think it was."The Aurors looked around and they noticed that part of the second floor was missing, then they realised that it must have collapsed and crashed into the main floor, which probably crashed into the basement below.The junior Auror looked down at his feet and mumbled, "This can't be good."By now a couple of more Aurors had arrived on the scene and were getting statements from witches and wizards who were present in the alley who may have seen what had happened. No one recalled seeing anything out of the ordinary immediately prior to the explosion that destroyed the store front to Weasley's Wizard Wheezes.Inside the severely damaged building, the senior Auror was trying to discern if there was anyone alive in the basement. Finally the 'homenum revelio' spell indicated that there were two people below them. The two Aurors made their way towards the back of the building where they were able to find what appeared to be stairs, but again, there was a massive amount of rubble blocking their way. Using spells to lift the rubble and move it away, they began the painstaking process of clearing the way to get to the basement where the two other victims were apparently located.After fifteen long minutes and some help from some others they finally cleared away the stairs. They had managed to make their way down into the basement only to find large piles of rubble which still blocked the way to the victims.~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~At the Ministry of Magic, Gawain Robards had been made aware of the incident in Diagon Alley. He was receiving regular updates from his staff, and soon he learned which building had been damaged, and that there were at least three casualties, one of whom was already taken to St. Mungo's, and two more that were still trapped inside the damaged building. The door to his office was swung open without so much as a knock and he looked up to see the Minister for Magic standing there."Minister," he said, startled as he stood up from behind his desk."Gawain, I just heard the news about the explosion at Diagon Alley," commented Kingsley with a severe look on his face."Yes, terribly tragic, my men are there right now, trying to rescue at least two more victims," added Robards."I hear it was the Weasleys' joke shop," said the minister."Yes, yes it was," replied the head of the DMLE."Has anyone informed Arthur yet?" asked the minister."I don't think so, we've all been trying to coordinate this and I have a team on the way to look for any clues as to exactly what happened," commented Robards."Of course, that is your job and your responsibility," agreed Kinglsey. "I'll see to Arthur, I know him well, he's a good man. George is his son who own's the shop. He lost his twin brother, Fred, at the Battle of Hogwarts. I'm worried that he'll take the news hard. If you have someone you can spare, please send them over to the Burrow and fetch Molly Weasley. Don't let her go to Diagon Alley. Bring her here or directly to St. Mungo's.""I'll look into that right away, minister," replied Robards."Thank you, Gawain," said Kingsley sombrely, "I'll go see to Arthur."A minute later the minister was knocking on Arthur Weasley's office door. Arthur was surprised to see his friend there to greet him."Why, Minister Shacklebolt, this is a pleasant surprise," said Arthur in his usual friendly manner.He noted however that Kingsley appeared to be less than happy."I'm sorry that I have some less than pleasant news for you, Arthur," said Kingsley as he tried to hide a frown from appearing on his face."What ever could be the problem?" wondered Arthur out loud. "Not another attack on our dear Harry I hope."Shacklebolt shook his head. "No, but there was some sort of attack, or at least we think it was an attack, or an accident. It seems there was an explosion. In Diagon Alley."The words hung in the air and Arthur started to tremble slightly."Your son's store, it appears as though someone may have attacked it," added the minister.Arthur was completely shaken with the news. "Is everyone all right? George, is George okay? Was Angelina there? Were there customers in the store? Children, what about children?"Kingsley grasped Arthur by the shoulders, "We think that there were no customers in the building. I have been told that Angelina was taken to St. Mungo's all ready. They are trying to get George and I think it must be Lee Jordan who was with him, but they are trapped in the basement.""We must go there at once and help them," said Arthur who was shaking and crying at the same time."You won't be of any help there at this time, Arthur," said Kingsley. "Let's take you to St. Mungo's and you can wait for them there. I've already had people go get Molly and she will be brought there too. There is nothing for you to do at the shop."Arthur continued to shake and Kingsley just engulfed him in a hug. "We will do everything we can for them."~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Ten minutes later the healers were arriving at the emergency ward at St. Mungo's with two severely injured wizards. Arthur and Molly Weasley had to be held back by several wizards while the medi-witches and the healers did what they could to stabilise George Weasley and Lee Jordan. It was over thirty minutes before they received any report from the staff. But the report they received was that both George and Lee were going to be okay. They had each suffered multiple broken bones but only minor internal injuries. Apparently they were working on creating some new products and they had been wearing some protective gear in case anything went wrong, and this protective gear actually helped prevent some more serious injuries when the ceiling crashed in on them from above.It wasn't until a little later in the afternoon before they had heard any more about Angelina. She too had suffered severe injuries, including burns over part of her body. However, as she had been found relatively quickly, the healers had been able to stabilise her and start on repairing much of the more serious injuries relatively quickly, although she would require several weeks of treatments at the magical hospital before she would be able to leave.~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~While the commotion was going on in Diagon Alley, Harry was busy with his meeting with his account manager at Gringotts. He had explained what he needed as far as a new apartment. Ragnok was initially delayed in meeting with him, but once he was available he quickly set about trying to help determine what would be the best course of action to take."There are no properties which either the Blacks or the Potters own near the University of Oxford," stated the goblin. "Do you really want to keep living in an apartment, or do you want to move to a house, or even into an estate? We can look into seeing if there are any properties available. If you were to purchase even a muggle estate, we could have the property fully warded within a matter of days."Harry contemplated the offer. "Why don't you see what is available in the area as far as estates go, and perhaps look into another flat here in London, as it would be nice to have a place here in the city, other than having to go to Grimmauld Place.""As you wish, Lord Potter-Black," replied Ragnok with the slightest bow of his head. "Hopefully we may have some options for you to review by later this afternoon."Harry smiled, "Well, I have some important business to attend to earlier this afternoon, so we shall see you later, perhaps around 4, if that would be acceptable?"Ragnok nodded, "That should be fine. Now, have you been able to determine the details of the rules of your houses?"Harry let out a sigh, "Andromeda Tonks has been most helpful in that regard and my next couple of meetings will be to address those issues. It seems I may be required to have one wife for each house."Ragnok shook his head, "My friend, you have survived multiple encounters with one of the darkest wizards of all time, you have battled dragons and even conquered death. Perhaps this may prove to be your undoing yet."Harry then noticed Ragnok's lips turn up into a smile and the goblin started to laugh a hearty laugh. "Only you my friend, only you would be so unfortunate as to have to take two wives. I do not envy you, Harry, no I do not."Harry joined in him in the laugh, but then he briefly wondered how true the warning might be about having to take two wives.With that Harry got up and made his way out of the bank, a little more concerned about the rest of his day. Harry made his way out of the bank and back out into Diagon Alley only to see confusion and mayhem down the street. People were running around, some were weeping, others were acting scared. Then Harry noticed a couple of Aurors apparate into the alley."Excuse me, can you tell me what is going on," he asked one of the Aurors."There has been a disturbance at one of the shops," was the only answer he heard.So Harry decided to follow the Aurors. He noticed there was some smoke emanating from one of the buildings. As he got closer he realised that it was coming from the general direction of George's shop. He could now see that there was a wall of people that had gathered a little ways up from where Weasley's Wizard Wheezes was located. Harry began to walk quickly towards the shop. Once he arrived at the crowds he managed to push his way through. As people recognised him they quickly let him pass.Harry tried to make his way into the obviously damaged building, and one of the Aurors keeping the crowd back shouted at him, "Who do you think you are pushing through the crowd like that, Harry Potter?""But I am Harry Potter," he answered sternly."Oh yeah, well, then I'm the minister for magic," replied the Auror.Another Auror who was standing there came up from behind and tapped his partner on his shoulder. "Hey mate," he spoke softly, "he does have the scar. And the messy black hair. And the killer green eyes."The first Auror turned back and looked at Harry, "Bloody hell, you ARE Harry Potter.""Have been for most of my life," he replied. "Can you tell me what the hell happened here."The second Auror shook his head. "No one knows. Just some big explosion. They already managed to get a few people out of the rubble, took them all to St. Mungo's they did. We're waiting on a team of special investigators to arrive."Harry swallowed hard, "Was anyone, well, did any one…""No one died," answered the Auror who had recognised him, "or at least not when they left here with the healers. We didn't find any other bodies. Just two wizards and one witch. There's really nothing for you here. If you knew them, you best be off to St. Mungo's."Shortly after Harry left for the hospital Gawain Robards arrived with the Special Investigation Unit. Robards started barking out commands left and right. "All right, you two," he said, "make sure this structure is shored up so it won't collapse on anyone. Now, Bagley, you and Smythe, I want you two to start going over everything we have around here for any possible piece of evidence."Bagley looked up and pointed to a note that suddenly materialised on the outside wall where the Weasley's Wizard Wheezes sign used to be. "You mean like that note that just appeared?"Robards nearly jumped and turned around. He looked up at the note that was glowing, then he ducked and covered his head. "Is that another bomb?"Auror Captain Bagley waved his wand over the parchment which was still glowing and then he turned to his boss, "No sir, it's just a magically generated parchment, with a message.""Well, read the damned message, Captain," barked Robards, "do I have to tell you how to do everything?"Bagley sighed as he looked up at the parchment.You left me scarred after you tried to capture meNow I left you scarredOr at least your loved onesAnd your precious businessI have hurt you and I will continue to return and hurt youYou will not know how or when or even whereYou can not run or hideI will always find youThe Shadow LordBagley looked back at Robards. "Well, at least we know it wasn't an accident caused by Weasley. And the Shadow Lord isn't just after Potter and Malfoy. Or at least not anymore."Robards cursed under his breath. "He's starting the whole damn war again."Rita Skeeter was standing just behind him as he said that, "I'm sorry, I didn't quite get everything you said, could you repeat that please? Or maybe I'll go with what sounds best, yeah, that should work."~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Harry arrived at St. Mungo's and met up with the Weasley family. Soon he was updated about the condition of George and Lee. He was worried about how meeting the Weasleys was going to go, but the focus was clearly not about him, but about George and Lee and Angelina.He was sitting in a chair in the waiting room, staring at his feet, wondering what he might be able to do to help when he heard an all too familiar voice."Hey, mate, it's been much too long," said Ron.Harry jumped out of his seat and hugged his first friend. "I am so sorry Ron, if there is anything I can do for you or your family.""I know mate," said Ron as he returned the hug.The two stepped back and just looked at each other.Finally Harry spoke again, "Really, if George or your family needs something, please, let me know. If I can help, just let me know."Ron nodded numbly. "We just heard that there was a message from this guy, the Shadow Lord," said Ron.Harry frowned. "That's apparently the same guy that is also after me."Ron looked up and he was clearly concerned. "Any idea who it is?"Harry shook his head. "No, none at all. But I'm working on figuring out what to do about him. I don't want any more crazy wizards chasing me all over. I want to be able to live in peace and quiet. And if he is going after my friends I need to find a way to put a stop to him."Ron nodded, "If you need anything to help in that, you let me know. We did make a good team at one point, don't you forget that."Harry smiled, "How could I? It's not every day we defeat a Dark Lord."They both chuckled a little and then they fell into silence.Finally Ron spoke again. "So, do you hear from Hermione at all?"Harry looked down at his feet before answering. "Yeah," he said and then looked up at Ron. "She's going to be starting up at university soon. I thought I might move out closer to where she is, sort of keep an eye on her, you know."Ron nodded. Then he gave Harry a strange look. "You and her, you're not hooking up are you?"Harry laughed, "Hermione and me? You know we're like brother and sister. But I do feel like I need to watch out for her at times."Ron nodded. "I heard about you getting attacked earlier this summer. Trouble still seems to follow you.""That it does," Harry agreed, "and it follows my friends. That's why we're all here, waiting on news about George."Mr. Weasley stepped up and greeted Harry with a hug. "It is so good to see you again Harry."Harry smiled back at Mr. Weasley. "Like I was just telling Ron, if there is anything I can do to help George, or Lee, or Angelina…"Arthur patted Harry on the shoulder, "It's okay, we know, Harry. We'll let you know if we need anything. How have you been, Harry?""I've been doing really well, Mr. Weasley," said Harry, trying to smile in spite of the events of the day."I"m sure you have, Harry," he smiled back. "The healers say they all will pull through. We've all had quite the scare for the day, but it looks like everyone is going to be all right."Harry looked at his watch and noted the time. "Ron, Mr. Weasley, if it is okay with you, I have some important meetings I need to be getting to, and I'm not sure what else I can do right now…""It's okay Harry," said Mr. Weasley with a broad smile. "They won't be waking up for a while yet and the healers said only immediate family members can visit until tomorrow at the earliest. I'll be sure to let George know that you were here, I'm sure he'll appreciate that.""Thank you Mr. Weasley," said Harry. He then turned to face Ron. "So, what have you been up to?""Well, I've been working some with George and Lee," he said sheepishly. "I was out getting some supplies this morning, I would have been there if I hadn't been doing errands for them. I'm just glad they had closed the store after the rush before school started. George wanted to get the stock back up and figured this was the best time to do it, and they wanted to get caught up on some research for new products.""I guess it could have been a lot worse if this had happened with any customers in the store," said Harry, thinking about how lucky they were that the store was practically empty."Yeah, right," agreed Ron. "Hey, maybe we can get together for lunch someday, if you're around that is. I hear you're mostly in the muggle world now.""Mostly," said Harry, "but occasionally, like today, I do stop by Diagon Alley or other parts of the magical world too, so maybe we can get together. That would be good."Ron nodded, "I'd like that."Harry started to walk away, and then Ron called after him. "Harry, could you do me a favour. Tell Hermione I said 'hello'.""Sure thing, Ron," said Harry as he looked back at his friend, "I'll be sure to do that."~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Harry arrived at the Lido Cafe at 1 pm, hoping that he wouldn't be late. He had gone back to change at his flat after meeting with the Weasleys. He wanted to be sure he had cleaned himself up and had a chance to deal with his emotions after the ordeal at Diagon Alley and then meeting with Ron and his family for the first time since just after the war and Fred's funeral. As he walked up to the cafe he briefly worried that perhaps his patronus messengers may not have reached Susan or Daphne. He started to worry about how many ways the messages could have gone wrong or what if either one of the girls or both of them decided not to meet with him.He rounded the corner and walked up the steps to the outdoor cafe and suddenly he stopped in his tracks when he was surprised by what he saw at the table in front of him. Susan Bones and Daphne Greengrass were sitting together. "Bloody hell, how could I have told them the same time?" he thought to himself. He quickly recalled in his mind what message he sent each young woman and he was sure he told Daphne he would meet her at 2. Maybe she decided to show up early and ran into Susan. Maybe he should have had them meet him in different places. He started doubting his entire plan for the afternoon. First there was the incident in Diagon Alley, and now this. What more could go wrong he wondered.Susan and Daphne both saw Harry apparently frozen in place at the top of the short flight of stairs. The two had met earlier in the day and had known that they had each received a patronus message from Harry. They had the decided to surprise him and meet with him together, but they had not counted on completely stunning him like this.Susan called out to him first, "Harry, come on, it's okay, we know about both of the meetings you had planned."Harry took slow and careful steps towards the table where the two women sat together.Daphne spoke up next, "Harry, we figured we could make it easier on you and meet with you at the same time."Harry swallowed hard as he sat down opposite the two women. "This is supposed to be easier on me?"Susan took a deep breath and then spoke her mind, "Look, Harry, we're all considered adults in the magical world. We also trust you, and we figure that you're going to be honest with both of us, whether you speak to us one on one, or with us both together."Daphne cut in, "And we promise not to hex you, no matter what you have to say."Harry took a deep breath himself, and shook his head slightly, "Well, I'm not sure exactly where to begin, but then again, I'm not sure if this would have been any easier doing this one at a time. All I can say is that I will be completely honest with everything I have to say."The two women smiled and silently waited for Harry to continue."I guess the first thing I need to say is something that I think might be kind of obvious," he said looking away from them both. "This world we live in, or we're from anyway, the magical world. It's not a safe place." He turned to look at both Susan and Daphne. "You know about the wars, you know about everything, or at least almost everything that's happened to me over the past seven years. I'm like a magnet for trouble. My whole life has been dangerous. And just because the war is over, that doesn't mean that things are going to change. People attacked Draco and me this summer. Hell, someone tried to blow up George Weasley's store today at Diagon Alley. I guess what I'm trying to say is that it isn't safe to be associated with me."Harry noticed that there already was three glasses of water at the table. He took a sip from the glass closest to him. Then he added, "I can fully understand if you want to walk away right now."He waited a minute and neither of the girls made any motion to move."I'm not about to go anywhere," stated Susan.Daphne grinned as she added, "You're not about to scare me away, Harry. I already learned that one of the safest places for me is by your side."Harry shook his head, and then he turned to Susan. "We had a lot of fun this summer, away from magic. If we're together, even in the muggle world, I can't promise you that there won't be people coming to look for me, to harm me or anyone close to me. I won't blame you if you want to leave."Next he turned to Daphne. "Daphne, again, everything we did, it was fun, carefree, there were no commitments, I don't want you to feel obligated to me because of one night I happened to 'save' you. Yes, you're important to me. But then there is this thing that some would think is a bad habit I have, my 'saving people thing'."Harry took another sip of water and looked at both girls before he continued. "Hermione thinks it will get me in trouble one day, this saving people thing."Susan and Daphne echoed each other, "It gets you in trouble all the time."Harry raised an eyebrow, but he went on, "Well, what I'm saying is that life gets complicated around me and that happens very easily, even when I try to make it simple. Fate decided to paint a target on me and refuses to remove it even now, after Riddle is gone."Daphne stared at him, and then asked, "That's all you have to say?"Harry was surprised by her question, "Well, there's more actually, but I figured that might scare you both away."The two girls looked at each other then back at Harry."We're not budging…" they said together.Harry looked at them both. Their speaking the same words at the same time was becoming quite disturbing to him. He shook his head slightly and then he tried again to explain things, "Well, my life does get complicated, and I just learned some things, so I need you to hear me out.""We're still listening," commented Susan.Harry was relieved that at least this time it was only one of them who made a comment. Harry rubbed his right temple briefly and then he began with his next explanation, "It has to do with my two titles, Lord Potter and Lord Black. I looked into this with my attorney. The rules of the families are different, and it makes things kind of awkward."Daphne spoke up first this time, "Awkward how?"Harry sighed before answering, "The rules of House Black do not allow the Lord Black to take a Lady Black and have her share that title with another house. In other words, she can't have heirs to any other houses."The two women were both excited and frustrated. Daphne looked at Susan and tried to silently convey that this might be what they wanted to hear and surreptitiously kicked her gently under the table."Well, there is an exception," added Harry.Daphne spun around and looked at Harry, "What do you mean by an exception?"Harry ran his fingers through his hair and then he tried to explain it as best he could. "If I have a Lady Black, she could not have any heirs for House Potter; however, if she is the last of her line for her own house, and if she had multiple sons, a second or third son could be allowed to take her maiden name and continue her own family line." Then he added quickly, "If I so allowed."Harry then added, "And House Black requires that the Lady Black must be from a Pureblood family." He paused before he added, "I didn't write the rules."Suddenly there was a different reaction from the two women. Daphne seemed excited by this answer, yet Susan seemed tentative. "What about House Potter?" she asked.Harry nodded at her question. "Well, yes, there are different rules for House Potter. It seems that House Potter allows for that as well, having a second son take the mother's name if needed to preserve the family before it dies out. And house Potter would have allowed for multiple heirs, such as to other houses, but the Black rules precluded that."Daphne and Susan looked back and forth between each other and then back at Harry.Susan finally spoke up, "So can you put this in simple English for us, Harry?"Harry shifted slightly in his seat. "Yeah, well, it seems that I, well I need two wives."AN: Oh how I HATE anonymous reviewers - to the reviewer who stated that only a few people in canon were scarred - this story is OBVIOUSLY not canon...to the reviewer who suggested that the Shadow Lord is Harry...as in some Johnny Depp movie...seriously?...that would be a bizarre twist...but, no...I thought there were a LOT of clues already in this chapter as to who it might be...maybe they were too subtle...





--------




AN: This chapter was getting very long, so in an effort to 1) get something posted before I go on vacation (again) and 2) keep it from getting over 15 to 20,000 words before it was done and 3) prevent it from taking for ever to finally get an update and 4) allow this scene to get into the detail that it seemed to want to go into...I decided to make it one long scene...Harry was shocked by the response he received from Susan and Daphne. The two women seemed to expect that he was going to need two wives.Daphne recognised the stunned response that Harry had to the nonplussed reaction of the two women in front of him. "Harry, we know you grew up with muggles, but I am from an old pureblood family. And while Susan may be considered a half-blood just because her mother was a muggleborn, she comes from another old pureblood family and she also knows the ways of the pureblood society. The Potters and the Blacks are definitely older than the Greengrass family and probably older than the Bones. I expected that you might have some family issues to deal with even before I knew you had the Black family title."Susan chimed in with her own reassurances, "And Daphne did approach me earlier because we have our own family concerns. As the last of my family, I am worried that the Bones name could end with me, and Daphne is worried that the Greengrass family could end with her and her sister."Harry nodded in understanding, "My solicitor was explaining some of those rules to me, and I wondered how they would come into play."Daphne smiled gently at Harry, "Most wizards wouldn't even consider letting our family names continue. It would never even be discussed."Harry shook his head in amazement. "The magical world seems so medieval."Susan nodded in agreement, "It hasn't wanted to keep up with the changes in the muggle world, choosing to ignore the modernisation of their life."Harry readily agreed with Susan. Then he looked at the two women, "So, it seems you two are already okay with what I had to tell you."Susan and Daphne both smiled, but Daphne spoke up first. "To be honest, it's not my ideal, but I don't want to speak for Susan. I'm not really sure what I think about sharing, but I do know that I like the idea of being with you. However, if being with you means sharing you, but that also means I might also be able to keep my family name going, I'm okay with that. Considering what my options would have been otherwise."Harry looked at Daphne, "What do you mean by that, what were your options?"Daphne looked away from Harry. "My father had been working on a marriage contract with a business contact from Eastern Europe."She continued to hide her face from Harry and Susan for a minute, eventually she wiped some tears from her eyes and composed herself before she turned back to face Harry.Susan looked at Daphne before turning back to Harry. "You don't understand our society that much do you? What Daphne's talking about, that marriage contract, is not that uncommon in pureblood families. What future she has with you, is so much more than what she can imagine she would have otherwise. I can see that.""Is that why you're okay with this idea of sharing?" Harry asked Susan."That's part of it," she said shyly. "Also, such an arrangement helps me. Yes, I come from a pureblood family, but due to my personally being a half-blood, there are those who try to take advantage of my position. In fact, I recently became aware of someone trying to activate an old contract that would force me to marry someone against my will."Harry was stunned by this revelation and Daphne gasped. Daphne spoke up first, "Which family would do this to you? Who would try and activate this without your consent?"Susan smiled thinly, "I was contacted by an Andromeda Tonks. She said she had been investigating a number of unusual occurrences. Apparently there was an old agreement between my great grandfather and the Nott family. However, she was able to determine that Theodore knew nothing of this agreement being activated, or the attempt at it being activated."Daphne was clearly starting to get angry and Harry was simply confused. "Did Andy, I mean Andromeda tell you what to do about the contract?"Susan smiled back at Harry, "Well, it can most easily be dealt with if a family with higher standing is willing to sign a contract immediately."Harry became concerned, "What families would be considered of higher standing than the Nott's?"Susan shrugged her shoulders and turned to Daphne, "Do you want to list the families for him?"Daphne smiled, "Well, the Potters are not on the sacred list of 28, but they are considered an older family than the Notts, and the Blacks are definitely older than the Notts. If you add to that Harry's fame for having defeated the Dark Lord, Theodore would have to stake quite the claim to try and enact a marriage contract over one written by the Lord Potter-Black."Harry shook his head in confusion. "Wait, so now I have to marry Susan so that she doesn't have to marry Theodore Nott?"Daphne smiled at him, "See, your saving people thing shines through again.""But…" Began Harry, only to be cut off by Susan."Are you saying you don't want to marry me?" she asked."No, it's not that," he stammered, "I just wanted to at least make sure it was okay with the two of you that I was dating you both at the same time and not have you want to hex my private bits off. I figured we ought to start there first!"Daphne turned to Susan, "See, I told you he's so noble."Susan replied, "I've always known that he was, that's why I've had my eyes on him since we were second years."Daphne, "You do have a point there. And, apparently he is trainable.""Trainable is good," agreed Susan."And he is athletic," added Daphne."Well, all those years of Quidditch, not too mention all of his adventures," continued Susan."And having to fight the war, almost single handedly," added Daphne, "and surviving the Tri-Wizard Tournament…all of that certainly has gotten him into good shape."Susan looked at Harry and then back at Daphne, "You are right about that. And he does care about his friends."Daphne nodded in agreement, "Yes, he could have been in Hufflepuff, no offence Susan.""None taken, Daphne," replied Susan.Harry's eyes were jumping back and forth between the two girls, following the conversation as they were taking about him almost as though he wasn't even there."Excuse me," he said, interrupting their banter, "I am still here, you don't need to keep going on and on about me as though I wasn't even around."The two women stopped talking and looked at Harry and there was silence at the table for a minute. Then suddenly they both started to laugh. Susan then spoke up first. "We're sorry Harry, but this whole thing is going to take some getting used to, for all of us."Daphne smiled at him and reached a hand out to him, which he carefully took with his, "I'm sure that this isn't easy on you, and we really don't mean to tease you at all."Harry rolled his eyes, and then he sat up straighter and cleared his throat as the waitress came by."Are you three planning on ordering anything?" she asked.Harry looked at the girls, and they looked back at him. "How about a glass of white wine for all of us," he suggested.The waitress looked at him and waited for further direction. Harry turned to the two young women with him, and Daphne spoke up first, "I think a Riesling would be best." The waitress simply nodded and went back towards the bar.The girls eyed him silently for a moment and the waitress returned quite quickly with the glasses of wine. Once Harry picked up his glass he looked at the two girls and he simply asked, "Would you Susan, and would you Daphne, do me the honour of becoming my girlfriends, understanding that this may entail both danger and adventure and quite possibly lead to much more in our futures together?"Susan lifted her glass and smiled and looked to Daphne who did the same. Then they both turned to face Harry and they clinked their glasses. Susan answered first, "I've been waiting all summer for you to ask Harry, of course my answer is yes."Daphne closed her eyes for a moment, and then she smiled broadly, "Of course my answer is yes, and honestly, I never would have imagined this day."Susan turned and scoffed at Daphne, "You know that is so not true! I know you've been keeping your eye on Harry since at least third year!"Daphne glared back at Susan, "That was not for Harry to know, and a Slytherin never dreams of dating a Gryffindor, even if it was Harry Potter."Harry couldn't help but smile at the two women. He even started to laugh until the two women turned and glared at him. Harry gulped and then spoke up, "Am I not allowed to enjoy this banter?"Daphne answered first, "Not at all mister. It's going to be difficult enough for us to learn how to share a boyfriend, we don't need you making it any more difficult for us."Susan nodded in agreement. "However, we do understand it can't be easy on you either."Harry spoke up in defence of himself, "It's not like I've had the most experience in dating, so this is all new to me, even if it was just one of you."Susan laughed, "You were doing pretty good with taking me around London all summer, and that was just as friends, now hopefully we can make things more interesting."Daphne agreed, "Going dancing was fun, and I'd like to do more of it, as long as we avoid that one particular club. And I know that I only need one dance partner." She looked over at Susan, "And yes, I will share. And as Susan said, I look forward to having more fun, and the stories I've heard from Sue about the things you did with her, I think I'd like to do that with you, going to some of those places, and maybe even join you and Susan. I think the three of us could do some dates together. Some things might not be too awkward with the three of us."Harry breathed a sigh of relief. The three of them continued to talk about things, the summer, possible ideas for future dates. As they were finishing their wine, Harry looked at his watch and announced that he needed to head back to Gringotts and then he realised that he needed to explain why he was heading there."Draco and I have been discussing that we need to move. My apartment isn't really that safe anymore," stated Harry. "I think I may need to explain some things to you."Susan and Daphne looked at each other and then back at Harry. "You already told us about the attack on George Weasley's place," stated Daphne.Harry nodded, and he was clearly very uncomfortable. "Well, as bad as that was, I think this might be considered a little worse. At least as far as what might have happened."Susan now was getting visibly upset. "What are you not telling us Harry?"Daphne was leaning forward and Harry could almost feel her emotions starting to rise. "Tell us exactly what happened.""Well, nothing really happened," he stated, "I managed to take care of everything."Daphne sighed heavily. "Don't ever lie to me, or to us. And don't make light of things. Ever. We already know what kinds of things happen around you. How could it be any worse than Crabbe trying to take you and Draco out in the alley outside of the bar you work at? Unless of course someone found out where you live."Harry didn't respond at first.Susan gasped, "Merlin, no, what happened."Harry took a deep breath, "Promise to stay calm, and remember, I dealt with everything. We're all fine.""Who is 'we' Harry?" asked Daphne.Harry shook his head slightly, "Why don't I start with a few days ago. You two should remember it well, you know, when Daphne woke up at my apartment. As it turns out, when I went off to speak with you, Sue, my good friend, Hermione showed up to visit. It so happens that she and Draco got into a bit of a row."Daphne shook her head, "That probably didn't end well."Harry smirked, "No, not at all. It seemed to end with Hermione slapping him, and then Draco grabbing her and snogging her."Susan and Daphne both were shocked and simultaneously said, "What!?"Harry smiled, "I do believe that you heard me correctly. Yes, the blonde ferret of a roommate of mine has apparently hooked up with my best friend. And in case either one of you has any concerns, Hermione is like a sister to me."Daphne shook her head, "Yes, I get that, I figured that out by sixth year when you hadn't started dating her by then. But Draco dating her, I'm still having a hard time getting my mind around that."Susan continued to shake her head, "I still can't picture it in my mind. With all of the abuse he gave her back in school…""It's not my place to say," commented Harry, "but he is trying to prove that he is a changed man towards her. But then the next day I met with my solicitor and I found out that I needed two wives, one for House Potter and one for House Black. I had no idea how this would go over with either one of you, honestly, and I had no idea what to make of that news. I went home to my flat and I left a note telling Draco that I needed to go clear my head. So I went to Godric's Hollow.""That's where You-Know-Who attacked you and your parents," commented Susan."I told you, his name was Tom Riddle," stated Harry, "please, don't ever be afraid to use his real name. And yes, that is where my parent's died. I went to their graves and I spent some time there, speaking with them, well, not literally. While I was out, Draco and Hermione stopped by the flat, and found the note I had left. Hermione was worried about me and she figured out where I probably was. However, by that time I had gone back to meet with my attorney."Daphne interjected, "So what did Hermione do when she couldn't find you?""I'll get to that in a minute," replied Harry. "Eventually I went back to my flat, and Draco finally told me about his new relationship with Hermione. I had a hard time believing him at first, too, and then I proceeded to threaten him like any good brother would if he somehow did anything to hurt Hermione. Well, last night, Hermione arrived at our flat, and we hadn't seen her since the day before, and that's when we figured out what happened. The Shadow Lord must have had her followed to Godric's Hollow, and had her placed under the Imperius Curse."Susan gasped and covered her mouth with her hand. Daphne closed her eyes tight for a brief moment and then commented, "You are here and you did say that you dealt with everything.""Yes, I did," agreed Harry. "I helped her throw off the curse. She had been given instructions to attack Draco and me…""In other words," corrected Daphne, "she meant to kill you both.""That's not what he said," corrected Susan.Daphne rolled her eyes at the former Hufflepuff. "Susan, I almost want to hug right now for still being so innocent after everything we've all been through, especially you." Daphne turned back to Harry, "Please, be a little more blunt with her."Harry nodded as he stared at the interaction between the two young women. "Hermione's instructions were in fact to kill us both." Susan's face paled at the thought. "It's okay Sue, and Hermione is fine today. We also removed the tracking charm from off of her. And now I need to find a new and safer place to live."Susan and Daphne both nodded in agreement with what Harry had to say. "So you're really not heading back to that apartment," commented Susan.Harry shrugged slightly and then continued, "We were thinking of moving closer to Oxford, as Hermione will be attending University there soon."Susan responded by biting her lip, Daphne seemed to be deep in thought in response to what Harry had just said to them."But what does that mean for us?" asked Susan. "If you're going to be moving away just as we're starting to date, how will that work exactly?"Harry took a deep breath and then he tried to explain a little further. "Well, I'm about to go meet with my account manager at Gringotts, and he's been looking into some properties near Oxford, specifically some estates. I think I'll have room for everyone. That is if you want to move there with me. I know that this is all kind of sudden and all, but I think we can all have our own rooms if the estate is big enough."Harry looked down towards his feet, afraid to look at the women to see their reactions to what he had just said.Susan and Daphne looked at each other and then back at Harry. Daphne spoke up first, "Did you just ask us to move in with you, Harry?"Harry looked up and noticed that Susan was blushing and that Daphne's jaw was open in surprise."I guess I did," he answered, "I know it is rather sudden, but then again, considering that things are starting to get dangerous around me again, I'm also worried that things might get dangerous for you both once anyone finds out we're all together. So, yeah, I guess so, it is kind of fast to go from being friends who hang out to dating with the knowledge we may need to get married to living together, or at least living in the same house."Daphne's expression changed to a frown for a moment. "I suppose I can easily commute magically there from London, if I'm going to keep working at all that is," she added. She then turned to look at Susan, "What about you Susan?"Susan just shook her head for a moment, "I never expected things to move this fast, I guess." She looked at Harry and then back to Daphne. "I don't want to feel pressured to be doing anything, from either of you. And if things start getting more physical in your relationship together before it does between Harry and I, I'm not sure how I'd feel about that, and I guess that if we all move in together right away I'd just be worried we'd be rushing things that way too."She looked over at Harry and she was trying to hold back tears. "I want this, really I do, but I want it to be right, not pressured, not rushed."Daphne reached out a hand and grasped Susan's hand closest to hers. "It's okay, Susan, I understand exactly what you mean, and honestly, I feel the same way, just don't tell anyone else."Susan looked up at Daphne and smiled. Daphne looked back at the strawberry blonde girl in front of her, "If we're both going to be with Harry, we need to do this together, there's no point in making this a competition from the start. We were friends at Hogwarts, even if we didn't know each other well. It may take work, but we better stay friends now, or we'll both be miserable which will only make our Harry miserable."Susan smiled at Daphne as she softly replied, "Thanks."Harry smiled at the two witches, "So, anyone interested in going to the Gringotts and seeing what options they have for estates near Oxford? Since it looks like you two will be moving there as well, I guess you might have some vested interest in this now."Several minutes later Harry and the two women had arrived at Gringotts Bank. As they walked down Diagon Alley several people commented about Harry Potter being accompanied by two beautiful witches. Harry initially was worried about the news spreading that they were with him, but Daphne was the first one to mention that they couldn't hide their relationships with him forever, even if there was some dark wizard after him. Susan agreed with Daphne, stating that they had learned from Harry during the last war when they were students not to hide from those who tried to intimidate the wizarding public, so why should they start giving into their fears now? Harry realised that he couldn't argue with their logic, particularly since they learned it from him during the fight against Voldemort and the Death Eaters.Once they were in the lobby, one of the tellers quickly recognised Harry, and waved Harry over, "Your room is waiting for you Lord Potter-Black."Harry bowed his head slightly, and thanked the goblin who then lead the way to the conference room as Harry and his two girlfriends followed. Once they arrived at the massive stone door, the goblin showed them in, and as he was about to leave, he stated that the director would be with them shortly.Daphne raised an eyebrow, "You never mentioned that your account manager was the bank director!"Harry seemed a little embarrassed. "Well, after the war ended, I had to come and deal with the fall out of some of my actions. It seems they weren't too happy with some of the things I had to do to be able to kill Riddle once and for all."Susan was puzzled by this, "You were gone for almost the entire school year, and no one really knew what you and Ron and Hermione were up to."Harry scratched the back of his head and he decided he could tell these two women the truth. "Riddle had done some very evil things, he had made soul anchors in order to try and make himself immortal. He had hidden these items in various places."Daphne nodded in understanding, "So the three of you were spending your time on a giant scavenger hunt, I get it. So what did this have to do with Gringotts, unless one was hidden here."Susan considered what Daphne said and then turned back to Harry, "But no one can break into Gringotts!"Harry chuckled slightly, "Well, I'm not exactly no one. And the goblins were not very pleased with me. And then there was the matter of our escape. They were a bit upset about the damage. And the loss of the dragon."Susan gasped, and Daphne rolled her eyes. Daphne shook her head as she spoke, "Is this what we have to look forward to, you continuing to put yourself into such dangerous situations?"Ragnok had entered the room without their hearing him during their conversation. "We here at Gringotts hope that one of our most valued clients would not continue with such foolish behaviour. However, rest assured young ladies, that the man you are with has fully paid his debts and reparations to Gringotts and is once again a customer in good standing with this bank. But then again, that much should be obvious or I wouldn't be meeting with you today, now would I."Harry laughed at the comments from Ragnok whose mere presence had startled the two women. "So, my friend, do you have some information for me?"The goblin smiled. "Our agents have found a few properties, several estates in the vicinity of Oxford that may be acceptable to your Lordship. I see that you may have solved part of your dilemma already, and these two women seem to be so far accepting of your circumstances."Harry smiled as he introduced the Lady Susan Bones and the Lady Daphne Greengrass to Lord Ragnok.Ragnok smiled, "Now that the formalities are out of the way. There are three estates which you may wish to look at. The more expensive one has six main bedrooms, 3 guest rooms, a full kitchen, over 100 acres. There is a six car garage, and a climate controlled wine cellar among its features. It has some classic architecture styling and it is a gorgeous property. It can be purchased and warded within one week if you choose to pursue this property. The second property is a little smaller, although it has a separate guest house with 2 bedrooms. It has an indoor swimming pool, and less than 50 acres of land. The third property has only 5 bedrooms, but it boasts a 4 car garage, over 70 acres of land, and has some magnificent views."Harry considered the options he had presented before him. Ragnok then placed several folders in front of him. "These are photos of the various properties. They are labelled in the order that I presented them to you. There is a description of each property and the asking price for each one as well is on the pages describing them."Harry and the women started to go through the folders. After twenty minutes they really didn't have much of a decision to make. Harry quickly told Ragnok that he felt the first one, the largest estate seemed most ideal. Susan than spoke up, "But it is the most expensive one as Ragnok pointed out, is that going to be a problem?"Ragnok simply laughed a deep guttural laugh, but coming from a goblin it was a more than a bit disconcerting. "This is the Lord Potter-Black you are talking about. I don't think he'll notice it affect his interest payments that much next quarter." He then turned to Harry, "We'll send one of our top negotiators, try and get the price down significantly, especially since you will be paying cash for the property. Oh, it will also not be done under your name openly, so that it cannot be easily searched for so that you can maintain your privacy. Once you own the property, we will send in the ward teams. We will let you know when we can have you move in and allow your house elves to arrange things as you want.""Thank you Ragnok," said Harry.Before the director left, he asked Harry if he needed anything else."There is one more thing," he said, "it seems that my apartment's location may have become compromised, so I may need a new flat, so I have a secure place to stay, or a secure place for Susan or Daphne to stay when any of us venture into the city."Ragnok nodded, "We will work on that for you immediately. And we can set up something special at the current apartment if necessary." With that he turned and left the conference room.As the trio left Gringotts Bank, they decided to head to muggle London and find a restaurant for dinner. While they were eating both Susan and Daphne were dismayed to hear that Harry planned to return to his apartment that night.Susan argued against his doing that first, "With everything that happened there yesterday, how could you possibly think of returning there tonight?"Daphne agreed with her, "Whoever did that to Hermione surely knows where you live, and by now must have figured out that their plan was not successful. Clearly they won't be stopping with one failed attempt against you and Draco."Harry put down his fork and stopped eating and shook his head slowly. "I wasn't a Ravenclaw, but already there is a pattern of sorts. That wasn't the first attack on us. Remember Crabbe's attack? These attacks are planned out, and they are not back to back."Susan disagreed, "Hermione coming after you and the attack on George Weasley were back to back."Harry had picked up his fork again and was now using it to emphasise his point. "Two different attacks, meant to confuse and demoralise people. The Shadow Lord is trying to appear to have a strength and a power that he really doesn't have. He may have only needed one or two people to place the bombs that were timed to go off at George's shop at a certain time. He only needed one person to curse Hermione, and that was done the day before she attacked us, which was the day before the attack at Diagon Alley."Daphne looked at Harry, "So, you're saying he is trying to appear more powerful than he is by making bold statements."Harry took a bite of food before replying, "Exactly, he is a simple terrorist, using some of Tom Riddle's methods, but on a smaller scale. More like precision attacks. He is not going for massive attacks against muggle borns or average people. This is someone who is making specific targeted attacks because he wants revenge, and for right now he is doing it with anonymity."Daphne smirked at him, "Such big words from our little Gryffindor golden boy."Susan still had a look of concern, "I still don't like the idea of your heading back to your apartment tonight."Daphne turned to Susan, "Are you suggesting that he head home with you tonight?"Susan blushed at the thought. "No, not that," she stammered, then she turned to Harry, "but don't you have anywhere else you could stay for the night?"Harry considered her question for a moment. "Well, there is my other property, but it is kind of creepy. And I haven't really been there since last fall. Some of the Death Eaters know about it, but I do have a house elf there who may have been keeping it clean, but I'm not too sure about that."Daphne looked at Harry suspiciously. "Why does this sound like an even worse idea than your going back to your apartment?"Harry laughed slightly at Daphne's concern. "Actually, Daphne, if there is any chance of your becoming Lady Black, then you really should see this place. We could make an adventure out of it. We could let Draco and Hermione know where we've gone and then head over to the Black family home after we're done here."Susan looked at Daphne with a little trepidation, "Is this really a good idea, I've heard stories of the Black family home."Daphne and Susan looked to Harry for a response. Harry simply shrugged his shoulders and then he began to explain, "It was a lot worse when we were in school. There were plenty of creatures such as doxies and pixies we had to get rid of, and then there was the horrid picture of Sirius' mother who would scream at anyone, call them foul blood traitor filth and all that. I think the dark arts books that were cursed have already been removed from the library. Kreacher, my house elf, has been fairly good to me since I destroyed the cursed locket for him, so he has started keeping the place clean. So all in all it's not so bad anymore."Daphne then asked, "So, how do we get there?"Harry laughed sightly at that. "Right now, you can't. It's quite secure. I can go there and I would have to change the wards. I could have Kreacher bring you there once that is done. I could tell you where it is located, but that may not be a good idea just yet."Susan's smile grew wide, "It's under a fidelius?"Daphne grinned, "With you as the secret keeper?"Harry nodded grimly. "However a Death Eater followed us there last fall, so we had to escape quickly. I have been hesitant to use it since."Daphne was clearly thinking hard about what Harry had said and then she gave him some advice. "If any Death Eaters knew of the location of your home, then they would have tried to find you there and they would have told others about your location."Harry nodded in agreement, "The person who followed us there knew the general location but not the actual address. We could see Death Eaters watching for any signs of us entering or leaving the building until we decided to make a run for it and left the house for good."Daphne reached out and took Harry's hand again, "Someday I want to hear the whole story of what you did last year. It sounds horrible and brave and awful Gryffindorish, but not now. But back to the issue at hand, whomever cursed Hermione and placed the tracking charm on her is looking for you there, at your apartment. They won't be looking for you at your other home.""Probably not," agreed Harry, "unless they know I know they're looking for me and they know about my other home and they decide to start looking for me there."Susan shook her head, "That is starting to get confusing you two, but back to the Black family property. Isn't it well warded? I would expect that you would be quite safe there even if someone knew you were there."Daphne added, "She does have a valid point."Harry rubbed his chin, "I'm sure it has very good wards, considering that no one has been able to break in, and any who have tried have been dealt with quite severely. So, if you would like, we can go there tonight. If you want to stay the night, then perhaps Kreacher could help arrange that."The girls looked at each other and quickly agreed that it sounded like it would be a wonderful new adventure. Harry shook his head in wonder. "The only problem is that we're currently in a muggle restaurant," he said as he tried to figure out how to best get them all to 12 Grimmauld Place. "I suppose we could go back to my flat and I could call Kreacher, my house elf.""No good," said Daphne, "I still think your place is too dangerous.""It's still well warded," protested Harry."No sense making anything easier by letting someone see you come and go," added Susan."Oh, all right," relented Harry."Spoken like a gentleman," said Daphne with a smile. "Is there a nearby apparition point that either one of you know about?"Susan just rolled her eyes at Daphne, "We're just a few blocks from Diagon Alley, we can walk back there, and we can figure it out as we go along." She then turned to Harry, "Can you use the floo network to get into the house?""I can floo into it, but the wards won't let either one of you in," he stated. "But if we head back to the Leaky Cauldron, I can get it into the house, and then I can adjust the wards, and then have Kreacher fetch you one at a time. He can pop you back to your places, and then bring you straight on over to my house.""That should work just fine," said Daphne.Thirty minutes later Harry was giving the two women a tour of the renovated Black family homestead, which had been cleaned and repainted. It was no longer quite so dark and dreary. Kreacher had even removed the portrait of his former mistress from the wall as Harry had insisted that he take a full room for himself and he allowed him to keep some of his own treasures and trinkets in there, including the collection of former Black house elves that had been honoured so that Kreacher could make sure that they received the proper respect that they were due.Once they had been throughout the home, Harry looked at the girls. "I suppose you may want to pick out a room. I was planning on using Sirius' old room."Daphne looked up and down the hallway and then looked at Harry, "Which room did you use when you stayed here before? You did mention you were here in the past."Harry pointed out which room he has stayed in during the summers and occasionally during some of the holidays during fifth year. Daphne smiled as she stated she wanted to pick that room. Susan then said she would be happy with any room in the house, and decided to take one next to Harry's room. The two women eyed each other carefully after they made their choices and Harry just shook his head as he calmly added, "This still isn't a competition, you know."The two smiled thinly at him as they both tried to relax a little at his words. Susan then spoke up as she brought up the question of Draco and Hermione. "Do you know if they are back at the apartment or where they might be? Perhaps they should be here. We did talk about telling them to come over here to be safer."Harry nodded and then he called Kreacher. "Could you go find my friend, Hermione. She is with my cousin, Draco, most likely, and he is related to the Blacks, his mother is Narcissa. Please let them know that they are welcome to come here tonight as it might be safer for them here than at the apartment where Draco and I have been staying."Kreacher then bowed slightly, "Very well, Master Harry, I will try and find the muggle born and the fair skinned whelp."Susan couldn't help but laugh as the elf disappeared with a pop. "Is he always so surly?" she asked.Harry responded with a slight grimace, "This is Kreacher when he is being well behaved. He used to treat me with scorn. That was until I started my quest in earnest to defeat Riddle. Once I destroyed a certain item that was part of what I was doing last year in order to prepare for that final confrontation he became much more pleasant.""You already told us about the locket that you destroyed," reminded Daphne."Right," said Harry. "Before that, he only referred to me as the filthy half blood master or some such nonsense. He was even part of the conspiracy that set me up at the end of fifth year when I stupidly went running into a trap at the Ministry of Magic thinking I needed to save my godfather. All that did was end up getting Sirius killed for real, and Hermione and Ron hurt, and the rest of us humiliated.""That's not the way I heard it," said Susan. "My aunt spoke highly of you and your friends. How the five of you held off a group of experienced and high ranking Death Eaters who were out to kill some of you even if they only wanted to capture you. How you were even subjected to the cruciatus curse from Riddle himself, and then you were possessed by him but forced him out. Plus, you proved to that idiot Fudge and the rest of the world that you were not lying, that Voldemort really was back. You proved you were brave, that you were powerful, and that you were honest and true. If you didn't notice, no one in Slytherin, or in any house for that matter, really wanted to mess with you ever again after that."Daphne agreed with her, "She's right you know. We all were quite impressed, even if no one would dare admit it. I think everyone was too scared about The Dark Lord's return as well as the fact that you had actually faced him, again, and once again survived. Because it did prove your story from the end of fourth year. Adults, teachers, fully trained Aurors were scared to ever face him, but you kept doing it, year in and year out."Just then there was the sound of a pop as Kreacher arrived. "The two extra guests will be ready to join you shortly. They said something about needing a few minutes to find a way to descend."The three looked at each other and then at the house elf when suddenly Daphne laughed, "Maybe they said 'to get decent.' Who knew they would be so randy?"~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~The next morning the group woke up and gathered for breakfast that Kreacher happily prepared for everyone in the kitchen. Harry discovered that his elf had arranged for delivery of the Daily Prophet, and he opened up the paper and he saw the cover story was about the attack at Diagon Alley.Weasley's Wizard Wheezes Attacked!Terror once again strikes in Diagon Alley as an explosion destroyed the front of the infamous joke shop that has become a popular attraction to students and children in the middle of the shopping district. Reports from the DMLE indicate that after school had opened this year, the owner, George Weasley, had closed the store for restocking and researching new product. This may have saved numerous lives as the only people present at the time of the attack were the owner George Weasley and his wife, Angelina, and his assistant Lee Jordan. All three apparently survived the horrifying attack and are getting care at St. Mungo's. The latest report is that their conditions are serious but we have not been able to obtain any further details.Several bystanders sustained minor injuries when the force of the explosion knocked them to the ground. Aurors quickly arrived on the scene and soon were helping with the injured and with the investigation into the incident. They bravely entered the damaged building to rescue the victims and helped with stabilising their injuries before they were taken to St. Mungo's for definitive treatment. Auror Captain Bagley discovered a note that had been attached to the charred structure. This note apparently was magically sent by the mysterious Shadow Lord who claimed responsibility for the attack as vengeance against owners of the shop. The note stated that they had scarred Mr. Weasley just as Mr. Weasley had left a scar on them.But the question still remains, who is this mysterious attacker, and why is he after George Weasley and his associates? Who else is he after and why does he claim that the ministry will be powerless to stop him? Do we have another Dark Lord on the rise so soon after Harry Potter defeated He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named?With such attacks occurring in our world so soon after the end of the last great wizarding war, it makes us ask, where is our famous Boy-Who-Lived? Why has he decided to go into seclusion? Does he have something to hide or has he had enough of our society and felt betrayed by his friends too many times? Rumours abound that even he was attacked this summer in the middle of muggle London. However, he has been unable to be reached to confirm or deny the truth to this story. He was however seen at the Weasley's shop just before the mysterious note appeared taking the blame for the explosion. Could Mr. Potter be the elusive Shadow Lord? He does have a scar! But the note indicates that the Shadow Lord is out for revenge and the reaction of the Aurors indicate that the Shadow Lord is the one who was behind the attack against Mr. Potter and that he is probably a renegade Death Eater that somehow eluded capture at the end of the Battle of Hogwarts. So our best educated guess would be that this individual has a vendetta against both Mr. Potter and Mr. Weasley, and possibly against others as well. So dear readers, we still need to all be careful, and we hope that the DMLE will do its job and bring this Shadow Lord to justice swiftly and surely!~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~





--------




Ron Weasley woke up and made his way down to breakfast. When he arrived in the kitchen of the Burrow, he realised that something was wrong. There was no aroma of food cooking, there was no sound of bacon crackling as it cooked, and there was no one anywhere to be found. Ron rubbed his tired eyes and soon he found a note left behind from his mother indicating that the others in the family had gone to check on George and Angelina at St. Mungo's. Ronald initially felt like he was left alone to starve, but he quickly determined that he could just use the floo and head over to the Leaky Cauldron.As he was finishing his breakfast, he started thinking about the recent events and the explosion that destroyed his brother's business as well as injured George, Angelina and Lee. The more he thought about what had happened, the angrier he became with the situation. Something finally clicked in Ron and motivated him to do something about the whole situation, so he stood up, walked up to Tom and paid for his meal before he made his way down Diagon Alley to the scene of the crime, the remains of the shop that his brothers had opened.The Aurors were still investigating the damaged building, searching for any possible clues beyond what they had already discovered. Ron arrived and just stared at the rubble from a distance at first and initially he was amazed that anyone had been able to survive. Slowly he made his way closer to the building and then he began to look around at the damage from a closer vantage point. The magical note that had been left behind was still attached to the charred entrance to the building. Ron started to read the message when one of the Aurors questioned who he was and what he was doing."I'm Ronald Weasley," he commented dryly, "this is, or at least it was, my brother's shop. I wanted to get a closer look at just what happened. If things had been a little different, I might have been here too when this all happened."The Auror winced slightly at hearing Ron's response and had nothing to say so he just turned and went back to his job searching for any other evidence. Ron, however went back to studying the parchment."You left me scarred after you tried to capture me…"Ron considered the opening words as he played back the Battle of Hogwarts in his mind. He and Hermione had been fighting together, but what had George and Fred and Lee been doing? Then he remembered something that they had boasted about, or more like someone who they had boasted about. He didn't remember anything about a scar, but something seemed to make more sense. Ron quickly turned and made his way to the Leaky Cauldron and flooed away.~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~That same morning, at Hogwarts, Ginny Weasley had already returned and at breakfast several of her friends were trying to comfort her upon hearing the news of what had happened to her brother and Angelina and to Lee Jordan.Luna silently gave her a hug as she sat down next to her at the Gryffindor table, and then Dennis Creevy sat across from them and smiled at the two, trying to comfort them as well. Several other Gryffindor students arrived for breakfast and quickly said hello and offered their condolences as well as encouragement and commented how glad that they were to see her back at school.The Daily Prophet had arrived that morning and Luna was already reading the paper which had an update on the investigation into the explosion. Luna started laughing as she was reading a story and the other students just stared at her. Finally one student spoke up, "It isn't funny what happened.""No, you don't understand," explained Luna. "The paper can't even keep their own stories straight. They had an article earlier that reported that their were rumours that Harry Potter had been attacked this summer after they had previously reported the facts about Harry and Draco being attacked. Its like they have bad writers or something.""Or one bad writer who can't even keep their own story straight," commented someone else at the table."Maybe they need a new editor," offered someone else from across the table."Or an editor who at least knows what they're doing, or maybe the writer will learn to keep their facts straight from now on," suggested Luna."Maybe your father can get another interview with Harry again for the Quibbler, and get the real story about what he has been doing this summer," commented Ginny.Luna smiled, "I don't think Harry has the time for that, he still seems rather busy with everything.""What makes you say that?" asked Ginny.Luna smiled awkwardly, as she turned the paper over and showed her the cover story.The Daily Prophet had a picture of Harry with Susan and Daphne in Diagon Alley all together on the cover.The headline read: Does the Boy-Who-Lived Have Two Girlfriends Now? Rumours abound that he is both Lord Potter and Lord Black. It is possible that he may need a Lady Potter and a Lady Black depending on the rules for each house? While the young lord has not been seen in public that much this past summer, apparently he has been keeping himself quite busy. Several witches and wizards reported seeing the Tri-Wizard Champion from just a few years ago escorting both Susan Bones and Daphne Greengrass into Gringotts Bank at Diagon Alley. Both of these witches had been classmates of the young Lord and have also been scarcely seen since the end of the Great War this past May…Ginny just shook her head in frustration at seeing the story, and she didn't bother to read any more of the gossip about Harry and by this time she knew she had no chance at ever getting back together with him. But she also knew Harry well enough to understand that he would hate this kind of publicity. And she also knew that this story was being read throughout the wizarding world this morning which wouldn't make Harry any happier.Elsewhere within the Great Hall, there was a certain group of students sitting at the Slytherin table who began to hatch a plan to help out the Shadow Lord as they read the same article. Pansy Parkinson and Theodore Nott spoke in hushed tones as they leaned together while reviewing details of the story.~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~The Minister for Magic expected that the public outcry over such an occurrence as the destruction of the Weasleys' joke shop in the middle of Diagon Alley would force action to take place. Particularly with this happening so soon after the end of the war with Voldemort and his Death Eaters, Shacklebolt knew he had to take action, and do it quickly and do it in a way that would reassure witches and wizards throughout magical Britain. So Kingsley called this meeting of the head of the DMLE as well as the lead Aurors to discuss what they knew about the events of the bombing as well as any of the other incidents that had occurred over the summer so far, particularly the attack against Harry Potter and Draco Malfoy.Gawain Robards was not happy with the meeting. While he wanted to catch the perpetrators, he didn't want to rush the investigation. And now he had the minister bringing up the attack against Potter and Malfoy, and Robards decided he had to speak his mind. "We can't overlook the simple fact that Malfoy hasn't even been tried yet for his part in the war," he stated bluntly.Kingsley leaned back into his chair and eyed his department head carefully. "And your point in bringing this up now is what exactly?""The young man apparently was marked when he was a student," stated Robards sharply. "He was reportedly involved in the death of Dumbledore. He was a Slytherin. Dammit, he's the son of Lucius Malfoy, isn't that enough reason not to trust him?"Auror Captain Bagley spoke up next, "We brought Malfoy in for questioning after the attack earlier this summer. I was not told we needed to detain him. We have been able to get in touch with him when we need him. He doesn't seem to be a runner, he doesn't act like 'dear old dad'. But Potter seems to trust him, if that's worth anything."Shacklebolt nodded at Bagley, "Since Director Robards brings up the death of Albus Dumbledore, it is difficult to say or do anything about that. Our investigation at that time, and I was one of the Aurors who conducted the investigation, indicated that someone let the Death Eaters into the school and it probably was Malfoy. Harry Potter is the one who told us it probably was, however we have no proof, short of using veritas serum. The only eye witnesses to the event of Dumbledore's death that we ever interviewed was Harry Potter. The others who were present at the time are all dead, other than Draco Malfoy. Potter explicitly told us that Draco refused to kill Dumbledore, that he merely disarmed him. Potter eventually learned that Dumbledore was aware that there was a plot against him that involved Draco. Severus Snape was aware of the plot as well. Snape is the one who actually killed Dumbledore, but we now know that was done because Albus Dumbledore allowed it as he knew he was about to die from a curse that was untreatable. So, Draco Malfoy was a puppet used by both sides in the death of Albus Dumbledore, a death that the man himself did nothing to stop. I don't see how we can use any of that as something to hold against the youngest Malfoy."Robards was still irritated by the situation. "What about Malfoy's involvement with letting the Death Eaters into Hogwarts in the first place that night? What about all of the other stuff he did while he was a student?"Kingsley sighed briefly as he considered what his director was saying. "We can't try the man in absentia tonight, and while from the stories I heard, he was a nasty git to be sure, he would need to be tried for his actions from that year and I honestly have no idea what the outcome would be. Considering his last name and his father's reputation, could he even get a fair trial?"The minister's question was met with some murmuring.Finally Auror Captain Bagley spoke up, "I thought this meeting was to discuss this Shadow Lord and the recent event at Diagon Alley."Shacklebolt quickly agreed. "In the past, the ministry tried to cover up such problems. We need to address this. The public knows about the attack, as there is no way to hide what happened. They have questions. We need to let people know we are dealing with this, and not ignoring it.""Of course," agreed Robards, "what do you think we are doing?""I know you're doing all that you can do, but we need to make sure the public knows that," explained Kingsley. "People learned to distrust the ministry after Fudge and Thickness and all of the corruption spread by Riddle and his lot.""So, what do you suggest?" questioned director Robards, obviously irritated with the entire meeting."I believe we need to create a task force for dealing with this Shadow Lord, and we need to invite Harry Potter to help out with the task force," stated the minister."You've got to be kidding," protested Robards. "He's just a kid, he's barely out of school. Some of his classmates are still in school!"Kingsley Shacklebolt was clearly very serious as his face was stern and he was frowning at Robards and his protests. "Do you forget so quickly that this young man recently defeated Tom Riddle and ended the last wizard war single handedly? That this wizard whom you just called, 'just a kid', is one of the most powerful young wizards I have ever encountered. During his time at Hogwarts he faced Riddle, or Lord Voldemort, on at least 5 separate occasions, and obviously he survived each time. Who else is more qualified to face any potential rising dark lord? Harry was targeted in the first attack. Harry Potter is also the financial backer, the silent partner behind Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes, so to me, he is the common denominator in all of this."Robards shook his head to show he was not about to disagree with the minister.Shacklebolt continued, "We will not make the same mistakes as Fudge did, we will not deny the threat, we will not deny Harry's ability to help us either. Besides, he is looked upon as a hero to most of the magical world, we could use a bit of goodwill from the masses, as it were, right about now, and if we can get it though Harry Potter, then so be it.""So, you would have us fetch this untrained young man and follow him?" asked Gawain Robards."I didn't say he needs to lead your task force," corrected the minister, "I simply was trying to emphasise the many reasons why he would be an asset to the team.""I met him when I investigated the first attack," commented Auror Captain Bagley. "I think he's a fine young man. We all know the stories about him, about the war, the things he did. His experiences alone make him more qualified and better trained than most of my men, and that is not meant to disparage anyone."Kingsley raised an eyebrow as he looked Bagley up and down. Then he turned to Robards. "Perhaps we have just found the leader for the task force. Please let Harry know as soon as possible. And make sure he knows that I have personally requested his involvement in this task force. Then once he has agreed to participate, make sure the press knows we have a task force looking into the whole situation, and who is leading the task force, and who is involved with it."Everyone sat still and just stared at the minister. After a moment he quietly dismissed them, "I think we are done here. I'm sure you all have jobs to do. Very important jobs I might add."~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Ginny Weasley was making her way down a hallway after lunch when she overheard some other students make some loud comments which she quickly determined were directed at her. The shrill nasal quality one of the voices made it clear to her who was leading the group even before she saw the silver and green trim on the robes and the tie.Leaning against a suit of armour and trying to look casual, Pansy Parkinson called out to her, "I heard your brother had a slight accident,"Ginny stopped and turned and faced Pansy, not sure what to make of her comment, so she remained quiet. Several of Ginny's friends came up and stood beside her as they overheard the verbal harassment begin."He probably just got what was coming to him," Pansy added, "considering everything he's done over the years, and particularly during the war."Ginny was about to respond, but Luna just pulled on the sleeve of her robes as she commented, "Pansy must be infested with nargles, mean and spiteful nargles, but nargles nonetheless."Ginny struggled to keep herself from showing any emotion in front of the bitter Slytherin girl. Pansy just stared at the blonde Ravenclaw in bewilderment wondering what that statement was about.Theodore Nott beckoned for Pansy to leave, "Don't waste your time with that lot, they think they won last spring. But soon they'll see just how wrong they are. Just like her brother learned and just like Potter will learn real soon, too." With that comment and a tilt of his head, Pansy and a few other Slytherins made their way down the hall as they followed Nott.Luna tried to comfort Ginny over the brief encounter she had just experienced. "You know they're just trying to get you riled up," she said with more straightforward calm than Ginny was used to hearing from Luna. "You must have seen Harry the other day, you know he's fine and that he can take care of himself. Don't waste your time worrying about idle threats from people like Pansy and Teddy."Some of the other students overheard Luna's comments that Harry had been by to see George and that Ginny had seen him that day."How is he?" called out one voice."My brother," replied Ginny, "he's doing okay. He and Lee Jordan and Angelina are recovering fine.""No, Harry, Harry Potter," clarified the student in the crowd that had gathered around Ginny by this time. "I heard a rumour that Harry Potter went to St. Mungo's to see your brother. Did you see Harry?"Ginny sighed as she answered, "I didn't really get to speak with him, although he did chat briefly with Ron."Dennis Creevy spoke up next, "Did you get to talk to Ron? What's going on with Harry? Did Harry say much?"Ginny rolled her eyes at all of the questions. "He didn't say much, he was busy and had to leave to go to another meeting. And no he didn't say who he was meeting with. I already told you, I didn't speak with Harry.""But you must know something about what Harry's up to," commented one of the girls. "At least more than what the Daily Prophet tells us about his hanging out with Bones and Greengrass."Ginny shook her head as she looked around at the group of students. She realised that most of them were Gryffindors, so she decided to tell them what little she did know about Harry. "I think he works in muggle London, he didn't say where. Yes, he has seen Hermione, I didn't hear anything else. That much he told to Ron. And no we're not dating, and no I'm not discussing that article in the Daily Prophet."With those words she turned and started to make her way back to the Gryffindor Common Room.~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Andromeda Tonks was busy working at her office. She had gone over the numbers several times and she was increasingly sure that she had not made a mistake. It was clear that someone was trying to cover up multiple attempts at diversion of funds. Upon confirming that the evidence was clear, she made her way to Gringotts for an impromptu meeting with Ragnok.Ragnok was not in a good mood to say the least upon reviewing the information displayed in front of him. Someone had been trying to cover their tracks in their attempts to illegally divert funds out of several vaults, vaults that had recently become the property of a certain Lord Potter-Black.The bank director let out what sounded like a low growl as he placed the folder down in front of him. Then he looked up at Andromeda Tonks. "The responsible party or parties for this deed may have thought they could get away with this because the individuals had died or were part of the Death Eaters. But as the assets for these families were given over to Lord Potter-Black, this theft or attempted theft shall clearly not go unpunished. And it has not gone unnoticed. We will uncover this and the consequences will be most unpleasant for those involved, of that you can be sure."Ragnok closed the file and shook his head. "Dishonour will not blemish our kind. It will be found. It will be expunged."Andromeda nodded in understanding, as she had worked with the goblins before, she knew that they valued their reputation in handling money and controlling vaults. "I appreciate what ever further information you may have for me on this matter once it becomes available."Ragnok simply bowed his head as he inclined to her request. "We shall meet again tomorrow to discuss what further developments we both have made in this situation."~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Harry had returned to 12 Grimmauld Place that evening to find his two girlfriends as well as Draco and Hermione waiting for him in the dining room."It appears that Kreacher already has dinner prepared for us," announce Hermione.Harry was a little surprised to see that and he quietly made his way to the head of the table where Daphne and Susan were already seated at either side.Daphne spoke up first, "So, how has your day been?"Harry shook his head slightly, "With all of the recent events it seems that the ministry in their infinite wisdom has decided to put together a task force to deal with this new threat, this Shadow Lord. And someone decided that Harry Potter might make a wonderful poster child for said task force." Harry just stared down at his plate, choosing to ignore everyone in the room for now.Susan spoke up next, "That's wonderful! At last they acknowledge your skill and talent! It's a lot better than how they treated you for years when we were all in school!"Harry didn't even respond to her words and Susan realised that perhaps she said something wrong. She first looked over to Daphne who shook her head indicating that was the wrong thing to have said to Harry. Susan then turned to Hermione hoping for more of an explanation.Hermione understood the silent question and Harry's frustration. She momentarily debated internally whether or not she should say anything, and then quickly concluded that it would best for all present that she explain things this once for Harry's sake. "Harry has never liked his fame, he has never wanted to be thrust into these situations," she began and she noted him look at her slightly as he raised his head and gave her a slight smile indicating that he was happy she had understood him so well. "For the ministry to just assume that Harry would want to jump right in and help goes against everything that Harry was trying to do this summer, which was trying to get away from the magical world."Daphne picked up on what Hermione was saying, "And now he's had to leave his muggle flat and moved back into this family home filled with magic.""And be drawn back into the middle of another magical battle," added Susan as the two of them began to understand Harry's frustration."Just another chapter in the wonderful messed up life of Harry Potter," he added.Daphne reached out and took one of Harry's hands gently, trying to comfort him. Harry was actually surprised that it was Daphne who had reached out to him before Susan tonight, but he knew that both of the girls cared. When he looked up from where Daphne was caressing his hand he noted that Hermione was paying attention to Draco who seemed to be lost in his own world of concern. He wondered what was bothering Malfoy. The odd silence in the room was broken when Daphne quietly asked if anyone had any ideas who the Shadow Lord might be.Hermione answered the question by listing the facts as they were known to the group. "Obviously, it is someone who is after Harry and or Draco, and for some reason also after George Weasley. So far the only clue they have left behind is the one that was left at the Weasley's shop."Susan added, "That could be almost any Death Eater or member of Slytherin. Anyone who was ever pranked by the Weasley twins and supported Voldemort.""Not just anyone," corrected Daphne. "This is someone who also was willing to risk everything by tracking Hermione and powerful enough to get Hermione to try and do their work for them. Someone who was hurt in some way by George Weasley at some point, but we don't know how.""Someone who is out for revenge," continued Hermione."Which is what makes him so dangerous," added Draco.Noticing the questioning looks from everyone around the table Draco explained his statement. "Whoever this person is, they're not going for the same result as the Dark Lord was. The Shadow Lord doesn't care about winning by taking over the ministry. There is no propaganda being dispersed. The message left for Weasley was simple. 'I hurt you and I can keep on hurting you.' He's not trying to take over. He's trying to cause pain. He's an anarchist. He wants revenge. He wants to cause pain, to inflict damage, and then he wants to kill one or more of us. And probably cause as much collateral damage as possible."Susan shivered at the chilling message. Hermione closed her eyes to try and shut out the images. Harry shook his head as he considered that once again he was being dragged into a battle he never wanted to be involved in but that he couldn't avoid. Daphne simply squeezed Harry's hand a little tighter.Harry then simply stated, "I do this, we do this, and then I'm gone. I've had enough of this."He turned to look at Susan as he added, "Things were wonderful this summer when we were just having fun, going to the parks, ignoring the magical world, just the two of us."Then he turned to Daphne, "Going out dancing together was magical enough for me."Then he faced to group, "I'm ready to leave this whole place behind once this sordid mess is dealt with."Daphne and Susan quickly agreed. Hermione, however, had a pained look on her face. Harry quickly understood her concerns. "My education," she said, "I'm about to start working on my degree.""That's fine," said Harry supportively, "and we're about to move into the estate just down the road from there. No one else that is magical needs to know where we will be, and I don't want anyone finding out. You could also transfer to another school, if you wanted to. We don't have to stay in England."Then he looked to Draco and he noted his pained expression. "Is there something else going on, Draco?"The girls all turned to look at him as well.Draco started to blush slightly with all of the attention. He took a deep breath before he answered Harry. "It seems that I have been unable to contact my mother recently, which is unusual, and it has me a little concerned. That is all."Before Hermione or any of the girls could respond to Draco's stiff comment, a loud but low sounding gong rang throughout Grimmauld place."What on earth was that?" asked a startled Hermione as everyone turned to Harry, expecting that he might know.Harry's face betrayed his worried expression."I do believe that was a signal set up by the goblins," he stated ominously. "The wards at the flat have collapsed. Someone must have triggered them, to their own regret I am sure."Hermione paled at the implication.Harry looked at her and smiled gently. "Yes, we know that the Shadow Lord learned of our location, and obviously he set someone to attack us there." He tried to comfort her with his words. "But we didn't stay there. Kreacher removed all of our things already. And we are safe here, they have previously tried to enter here and were unsuccessful. Besides, soon we will move to the new manor house that no one else knows about."Susan was equally disturbed at the thought of what was implied by the sound of the gong. "But what about whoever tried to break into your apartment? What if they try something else?"Draco gave a low laugh and shook his head at Susan's question. Susan spun around to glare at him, but Daphne spoke up to explain to both Susan and Hermione. "Harry already explained that the goblins warded the apartment. Whoever tried to break in and attack Harry and or Draco, well, at best, they didn't survive the attempt."Hermione's jaw dropped at Daphne's words. "At best? What could be worse than being killed trying to break into the apartment?"Daphne looked up at the ceiling for a moment and then looked at Hermione, "Oh, I don't know, maybe being port keyed directly into a goblin dungeon or slave mine? Or perhaps into a goblin dragon handlers pen. Or maybe being…"Hermione cut her off, "Okay, okay, I think I get the point!" She stared at Daphne for a moment and then she held her head in her hands. After another minute she looked up at Harry. "If the wards are so powerful, then how did I get through, when I was…" she began to stutter on her words."When you were imperiused to attack us? That's actually quite simple," explained Harry, "you were already keyed into the wards. They were not intent based but individual based."Hermione still seemed confused. "But if that were the case, then it would have been foolish for anyone to follow an order from the Shadow Lord to try and attack you at the apartment, the wards would repel anyone but us."Daphne laughed again. "That's the problem with most wizards, they would never have seen the wards. Harry just explained that they were goblin designed wards. Whomever was foolish enough to attack was probably only looking for wards they could detect, wards made by wizards, not goblins. Goblins use a different warding scheme, and by doing so, they can easily mask their wards if a wizard doesn't know what they're looking for."Draco scoffed, "The Shadow Lord set up the message to appear after he destroyed the Weasley's shop."Daphne raised an eyebrow, "So? What does that have to do with anything?"Draco rubbed his brow and then he began to explain the issue. "It means that the Shadow Lord is no slouch. He knows his magic and he can do some advanced transfiguration. He clearly wasn't the one who blew up the building though, he would have sent one or more others to do it for him. He sent others to attack Harry and I earlier this summer. He even sent a couple of low ranking jerks to try and break into here, probably to see if it could be done. He didn't care if they got caught trying to do it. He obviously didn't care that who ever just got taken out going after the flat just snuffed it. Hell, he probably figured they would.""But why would he do that?" asked Susan."Chess," said Harry. "He's playing a game of chess, and he doesn't care about sacrificing his pawns. Ron would do it all of the time if it would help him win the game.""But we don't know what this guy's game is," added Draco. "We don't know what he is playing at. Beyond revenge and trying to hurt you, and Weasley, and possibly me."~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~The next day found Andromeda Tonks in another meeting with Ragnok. The goblin leader was not in a particularly pleasant mood. His office was otherwise empty and Andy had noted that there were several heavily armed goblin guards at the door when she had ben escorted in to meet with the bank director."We have finished our own investigation and our follow up inquiries during the night," he began. Before she could ask for further explanation Ragnok gave her more details. "A few unsavoury types were found out who have brought dishonour to the goblin nation. There were bribes accepted from a former Death Eater. We have frozen a number of accounts that had been attempted to be accessed while we look into this further. Meanwhile, once we finish extracting all of the information from those that were involved, there will be a final reckoning."Andromeda briefly paled at the thought of what Ragnok's comments implied. She then gathered her wits and continued with her meeting as she asked about the accounts. "Can you tell me just which accounts have been affected?"Ragnok placed his hand on a stack of files in front of him as he began to answer her question. "Many of the accounts that have been affected are ones that have been assimilated by Lord Potter-Black, and there was also an attempt to gain access to Heir Malfoy's assets. While there was some tampering, I am assured by the accountants that no funds were misappropriated but we will have a full accounting completed by early this afternoon. The frozen assets will not affect the majority of either of their holdings, so I do not expect that it should be any inconvenience to either of the young men.""That is most appreciated," replied Andromeda. "But what of this tampering with Heir Malfoy's account? What would they expect to gain from that? Lucius, Narcissa, and young Draco are all still alive. No one else could even think to lay claim to the title."Ragnok paused for a moment before he answered. "Information is clearly what was sought."Andromeda tilted her head slightly, not understanding what kind of information that the Death Eaters could possibly be searching for.Ragnok rubbed his chin briefly before he continued. "Lord Malfoy is still in a holding cell awaiting his trial, which should take place shortly. Heir Draco is known to be with Lord Potter-Black. Most people, wizards and witches that is, have not known where Lady Malfoy has been since the end of the war in May or June. Your sister has not made many friends.""But other than Malfoy Manor, their other properties are secure," commented Andromeda, "even I don't know where they are located."Ragnok did not respond to Andromeda's statement.Suddenly Andromeda gasped. "But the bank records here might indicate the locations of their properties!"Ragnok silently nodded with a solemn look on his face."But can't you add extra wards for protection?" she asked."Only the master, or owner can commission such wards," replied Ragnok, clearly not happy to relay such news to Narcissa's sister."So, whoever accessed this information, may have the addresses of other Malfoy properties and may be able to find Narcissa," stated Andromeda."I do believe that was already established as our concern," acknowledged Ragnok."Bloody hell," muttered Andromeda as she stood up, "I think I need to go speak with a couple of young men."As she turned to leave his office, Ragnok offered her one more piece of information, "If anything further turns up, or if we have any leads on to Lady Malfoy's whereabouts, we will be sure to share this information with you, Madam Tonks."Andromeda had paused at the door and bowed slightly to the goblin, "Thank you, Lord Ragnok, that is most gracious of you." With that she turned to leave and make her way to find her grandson's godfather.~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Neither Draco nor Harry were particularly pleased with the information they had received from Andromeda. The women had stayed behind at Grimmauld place, at Harry's instance despite their arguments. Draco's defence of Harry's position was that he could only side along apparate one person at a time, which Hermione began to counter argue as well, but before she could finish her point, the two young men had already disappeared to Merlin knows where, which was precisely where they found themselves.Harry stared at the empty cottage in front of him. It appeared quite nice, and seemed to be in the middle of nowhere. From what he could determine, someone had been here recently.Draco came back out from the cottage with a frown. "My mum has been here, but not for at least a day or two, perhaps longer. I don't think anyone else has been here either.""Well, that's good, isn't it?" asked Harry."I think so," commented Draco, who was still worried. "I'm sure she's not at the manor, the ministry has been crawling all over that place since the end of the war. I'm not sure if I ever want to go back there, with everything that has happened there."Harry simply nodded."Too many dark memories," Draco said, "too many…" his voice trailed off and Harry had a fairly good idea what memories Draco was trying to forget."So where exactly are we now?" asked Harry, hoping to change the topic."Exactly?I can't tell you that. Not because I don't know, but because you can't know," Draco explained. "But we are in Wales." He looked around where they were standing. "I guess I never appreciated how pretty it is around here. I suppose we ought to check another place as well.""Where is that?"Draco shook his head, "You know I can't just tell you these things, Potter." He reached out and grabbed Harry's sleeve and then they apparated together to a large field.Draco looked around and he could tell that the wards were all still in place. Harry looked and all he could see was a large open field."Where are we now?"Draco just smiled, "That you'll just have to continue to wonder about. Since the wards are all still in place, I know that no one else has been here for quite some time. Not even my mum."Harry just nodded his head, "Well, okay then." He noted that Draco was however getting quite frustrated."We need to get back to Gringotts," commented Draco. "We need to know who it was who was getting the information about the vaults and manipulating things."Harry let out a sigh, "Ragnok said they would have that information soon, and once they had that information they would give it to us. But that won't necessarily tell us who the Shadow Lord is, or even where your mother is.""Then what the hell are we supposed to do?" demanded Draco. "I don't want to just sit and wait while I know he has people trying to track down my mother. We need to find the Shadow Lord.""Yes, and the Ministry has a task force that is supposed to be working on it," added Harry."Which you are supposed to be a part of," commented Draco."That I am," said Harry as he conjured a couple of chairs so they could sit down. "Perhaps we could use that to our advantage. I could find out what information the ministry has on the Shadow Lord, and we use that for ourselves."Draco eyed Harry suspiciously. "You're not going to work with this task force?""When has the ministry actually helped me in the past? Oh, I'll show up to their meeting, at least once," replied Harry. "I told them I would be there tomorrow. But in the mean time, I want to gather all the information I can on my own.""So now what do we do?" asked Draco."We go to St. Mungo's," said Harry simply as though it was the most obvious thing in the world."And how will that help?""If Ragnok discover's anything from the investigation he is doing at Gringotts, he will let us know," Harry began to explain. "However, in the meantime, we have to speak with George Weasley and Lee Jordan, as they are the one's who may understand the clue left behind by the Shadow Lord. The one that was left at their shop."Several minutes later, Harry and Draco were walking into the entrance at St. Mungo's. Harry checked at the reception desk to see if George Weasley had been moved and he was directed to his room location. Once they reached the ward where George and Lee were located, they noticed that the Weasley family was still all crowded around George and Angelina and Lee Jordan's bedsides.Draco looked at Harry, "There is no way that we can get in there and speak with them. They would never let me through and they would be too busy fawning over you to let you even talk to them, you'll never get a chance to find anything out."Harry nodded in agreement. Then he turned and walked up to one of the nearby nursing desks and asked one of the women who was helping, "Excuse me miss, but what time are visiting hours?""Visiting hours are from 8 in the morning until 8 at night," she said with a smile."Thank you very much," replied Harry.Harry turned and walked away with Draco following him. "We'll be back at 9 with my invisibility cloak," he said to Draco as they left the hospital.~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~At Grimmauld Place, Daphne had ventured into the library and was perusing some of the older books in the back of the large room. She quickly surmised that the room must have been magically enchanted to be larger than it appeared, much like many of the rooms at Hogwarts. As she was pulling on of the books off of a shelf she heard some footsteps from behind her."You really shouldn't be in here," stated Hermione.Daphne rolled her eyes before turning around. "Now, why is that, might I ask?"Hermione shifted back and forth as she prepared to answer, feeling uncomfortable under the glare from the former Slytherin witch. "Well, when we were here a few years ago, and we were helping to clean, Mrs. Weasley warned us that there were many dark books and dark items here in the library and that we should be careful."Daphne couldn't stop herself from laughing. "First of all, Molly Weasley wouldn't know what was dark from what was just simply Black family magic, and Hermione, there really is a difference. And I might add, that if I'm going to be Lady Black, which I am, I think I should become familiar with the Black Family Library and the Family Grimoire."Hermione bit her lip. "But, you're only dating Harry, you're not the Lady Black yet, it still could be dangerous."Daphne smiled at Hermione. "I am his intended. We have talked about this. I am to be his Lady Black." She could tell that Hermione was not convinced, so she called for Kreacher."Yes, Mistress Daphne," croaked the old house elf, "how may I be helping you this day?""Kreacher, I have a question for you," she began, "am I allowed to be in the library? And furthermore, am I allowed access to the family tomes and spell books? Or perhaps for clarification, are there any restrictions on what books or items I should not have access to either here in the library or in the house?"Kreacher looked between Hermione and Daphne and then he seemed to understand. "Mistress Daphne is soon to be the Lady Black. Magic itself recognises her to be the Lady of this house already. As such there are no restrictions on your being anywhere in the house, and it is expected that you should learn the family magics as soon as possible. It would be best for you to be able to help Lord Potter-Black in this way."Hermione was astounded as she heard what the house elf had said.Daphne simply went to pick up the Black Family Grimoire, as Hermione gasped."But that's dark magic!"Daphne shook her head. "It is family magic, family magic that I should be learning, as you just heard Kreacher explain."Susan had arrived in the library by this time, looking for the other two and she had overheard everything from before Kreacher had arrived. She then took Hermione by the arm and escorted her away from the library."It is Daphne and Harry's library, not mine, not yours," she said softly. "I know how much you love to learn and to study and to read, but this is one time you really need to step away. Mrs. Weasley may have been right about one thing, it is dark magic to those who don't understand or to those who are not accepted by the magic. This is family magic, and I won't be a part of the Black family, only the Potter family. I'm only a guest here, too, just like you."Then Susan and Hermione made their way back down stairs to the kitchen to wait for Harry and Draco to return.~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Two wizards were walking around an old manor house. They found the home to be empty. After fifteen minutes of investigating they apparated away and then they approached the large room in the warehouse.The Shadow Lord spoke, "So, what did you find?"The first man answered, "There are no signs of anyone being at Malfoy Manor. The entire estate in Wiltshire seems to be empty, no one seems to be there, and she probably hasn't been there for several months at least.""What about her son?" asked the second man. "We could just grab him, we know where he is at, don't we?"The Shadow Lord shook his head. "Don't be a fool. If he knows anything, he won't give up her location very easily, if at all. Besides, he has moved out of our grasp, for now at least. And remember, we need her to get to him, not the other way around. With Narcissa in our hands, then we have control over the young brat. She will be the bait to capture Draco."The Shadow Lord paced back and forth for a few moments. "She's not at the manor or at the cottage. We weren't able to get the other address, but then again, Lucius did have that apartment he would use here in London."The Shadow Lord recalled that Lucius occasionally would use a fancy apartment in London near the Ministry of Magic. Very few people even knew that Lucius had that apartment. Perhaps that is where Narcissa might be hiding.He then turned to the two men, "I have another address for you to investigate, but it would be best to go first thing in the morning." He then pulled out a piece of parchment and a quill and wrote down the address. Then he handed it to the men. "Your target may be hiding here. If you find her, you know what to do."~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Nott and Parkinson were standing by a large window that gave a view of the Black Lake. There was no one else in the halls at this time as they were talking. Theodore had managed to discretely place silencing charms around them just incase there were any other charms that had already been placed that could be used to spy on them."We have several sets of ears in a few of the houses, not to mention the number of growing supporters already within our own house," he began."Good, we will need all the support we can get," stated Pansy. "Now, we need to do something to truly show our support for the Shadow Lord, something that will let him know his cause is not falling on deaf ears among the students."Theodore shook his head. "I don't know, I'm worried that with Potter making publicity again with having two girlfriends, everyone is going to be reminded of his being the hero and how the Dark Lord was defeated and we might lose all of our support."Pansy's eyes lit up. "That's it! We take away his support!"Nott shook his head, "You lost me Parkinson, exactly how do we take away his support? We can't touch Greengrass or Bones, or do anything about the articles in the Daily Prophet.""We can't touch Daphne, that blood traitor," sneered Pansy, "but we can do the next best thing."Theodore suddenly began to understand. "Could it really be that simple?""If we time it right, and get a little lucky," she replied. "We learned about some of those secret passages during the last year of school. One of them leads right to Hogsmeade. If we can get her alone near there, stun her, and take her down the passage, no one will know what happened. We can come up with alibis for everyone involved."Theodore became suspicious. "But how do we know we won't get caught?""We use a simple plan, but use intermediaries," she said. "We get others to get her friends to be busy, so that Astoria is alone, coming back from studying. We arrange for a distraction, and if all goes well, we can get this down within the next 24 hours."~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~AN: I tried to address some comments from a few reviews within the chapter — so some of you might have noticed that. Sorry that this chapter took so long to finish and get posted, but life happens. I have been working on planning out the rest of the plot for the story, so hopefully it won't be so long between updates, but then again, I'm not about to make any promises. So, right now, the story does seem to be getting away from the original premise as indicated from the title - but have no fear, I have not forgotten the purpose of the story, and neither have the main characters...Thanks again for reading, reviewing, and all of that...and I will be getting back to my other stories...eventually.





--------




AN: It has been a while since my last update. Life has been busy, and parts of this chapter were harder to get to fall together properly. The story is moving along...I hope you all enjoy it...and more answers are finally revealed...and some more plot twists...but read on...Astoria Greengrass was heading back towards her common room after studying in the library with one of her friends when another student came along and told her friend that Professor Flitwick had asked her to come see her about a problem with an assignment. As it was nearly dinner time, the student agreed and turned and left, while Astoria continued on her way towards the dungeons. While she passed a statue of a one-eyed witch she barely heard someone say stupefy, but before she could react she collapsed unconscious on the floor.Dennis Creevy and Ginny Weasley stepped out from the shadows and picked up the fallen body and started to carry her behind the statue and into the passage way. Once they disappeared into the darkness, Dennis cast a lumos spell. "How long until this polyjuice potion wears off?""It should only last another thirty minutes or so," commented the witch who appeared to look like the Weasley girl."Ugh," replied the wizard who looked like the Gryffindor boy, "that's just too long.""Look, we'll be out of the tunnel soon. We still have some debris up ahead to clear. And this way if anyone saw us hanging around the hall before Astoria showed up, they didn't see us, they say Weasley and Creevy, so no way to track it back to us.""You've made your point already, Pansy," replied the boy."Besides, I could show you Weasley's privates if you wanted," teased Pansy.The boy shook his head. "That's just wrong. We've got more important things to do than play sick games.""What's the matter, Nott," replied Pansy, "or do you prefer to play for the other team?""You're just pathetic, Parkinson," he snapped back. "We've got a job to do, to focus on, and you want to play foolish games. Lets just get this over with so we can get back into the castle so no one has any other reason to suspect us.""Fine, whatever," agreed Pansy sullenly.They two made their way down the passage way and came to an area that was blocked by old desks and chairs. Nott took one look at the pile in front of him and scoffed. "This was supposed to keep Potter and his friends from coming and going last year? Whose idea was this? The Carrows? Surely not Snape's, he would never have done anything so incompetently.""Who cares," commented Pansy, "lets just get rid of it and move along."A couple of blasting hexes later and the old desks and chairs were just a pile of debris, and then the two dopplegangers for Ginny Weasley and Dennis Creevy once again lifted the immobile form of Astoria Greengrass and started to make their way down the passageway once again. About fifteen minutes later they found themselves at the base of the ladder that would lead up into Honeyduke's Candy shop. At that time the polyjuice potion was wearing off and the slightly painful transformation started to take placePansy looked over at Theo, "You head up and make sure the back room is clear so we can get out of this dank tunnel, then we'll levitate her out of here."~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Later that evening, Harry and Draco made their way back to St. Mungo's and there they used Harry's invisibility cloak to cover themselves as they made their way past the receptionist desk. Once they arrived on the ward where George and Lee were still getting care they slipped out from under the cloak and made their way to George's bedside.George was initially surpassed by their presence, but he realised he should stay quiet so as not to alert the staff due to the lateness of the hour."So, what brings my esteemed silent partner and the mysterious Mr. Malfoy so come see me so late? Other than the obvious reasons that my family would have smothered their little Harrikins and wanted nothing to do with the bouncing ferret," commented George quietly.Draco winced visibly at the use of the term 'bouncing ferret' but Harry simply smiled as he replied, "I needed to speak with you about what happened at your shop."George smiled back at Harry, "I pretty much expected this from you Harry, actually I'm only surprised you didn't show up sooner."Harry grinned again, "Things get complicated for me, even without the dark wanker after me."George laughed at him. "So I see in the paper. Two girl friends, even I didn't see you having to get two wives, though, partner."Draco raised an eyebrow at that comment.Harry shook his head indicating that he would explain that later.He then turned back to George. "I presume someone must have asked you about the message left at your shop."George nodded, "I already told them what I could.""You do realise that this person, whomever it is, will attack you again, and again," added Harry. "And that you weren't their first target."George raised an eyebrow. "This guy already attacked you then? Is this the guy who made the attack on you and Draco that we read about?"Harry nodded."The thing is," George continued, "I don't remember anyone being scarred from anything Fred and I did. Yes, we pranked people, but nothing we did caused any permanent harm.""This isn't about your pranking, George," said Harry, "it's about the war. What happened the night of the final battle, the Battle at Hogwarts. Did you do anything that night that would make someone want to come after you?""We did lots, I'm sure," added George, "we all did. Casting spells left and right, trying to stop Death Eaters just like everyone else. We even tried to capture a few. Why, the three of us, Fred, Lee and I, we captured one guy who was right mad that we brought him down. His face was a mess…."George's face went pale.He looked up at Harry, "But we turned him over to the Aurors."Harry shook his head, "Many of the Death Eaters escaped that night, not everyone who was captured made it back to the holding cells." Harry then pulled out a piece of parchment with a picture on it, "Is this the man you captured that night and turned over to the Aurors?"George looked at the picture, "Yes, I'm pretty sure that's him."Harry smiled at George, "Thanks, you've been a lot of help."As Harry and Draco were leaving, Draco asked him how he figured it out. Harry commented quietly that same individual already had a grudge against him and Ron and Hermione. "Revenge is a very powerful motivator, and I have a feeling that he won't stop until one of us is dead."Draco stopped walking, "So, he wasn't just using Hermione, he's after her too."Harry turned and faced Draco, "Probably, but I presume his main targets right now are George and me. I don't know if Ron and Hermione are secondary targets or if he just hasn't made them a priority yet or hoped that they might be collateral damage. But I fully expect he will target them eventually if we don't stop him soon enough."Harry could see the anger starting to rise in Draco's face. Harry tried to calm him down as he added, "We just need to find him first.""And find my mother," muttered Draco.~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Most offices within the Ministry of Magic officially opened by 8 in the morning .Visitors usually didn't start arriving until after 10 in the morning as it was rare that they had business that was so pressing that they wanted to get there so early. That was why the guards were a little surprised when someone came through the floo and was waiting to have their wand checked at 9 am. Suddenly the guard recognised the visitor."Do you have an appointment with someone so early, Mr. Weasley?" asked the guard."No, no," replied the tall red headed young wizard, "I've just got a lot of things to do today and I was hoping to get some ministry business taken care of first thing, that's all."The guard nodded, "Not too many think that way, they usually take care of everything else first, or they don't want to disturb anyone here while they're getting everything sorted. If you ask me, the message system must go haywire overnight when there's no one around and it takes them half the morning to get it sorted out. I don't understand why it does that everyday, though."Ron just smiled as he handed his wand over to be checked and then walked through the gate and made his way to the vital records department. He took the lift to the fourth floor and managed to get the attention of the older woman who was working behind the desk trying to sort some papers.She looked up from what she was doing and looked Ron up and down from head to toe. "Aren't you that Ronald Weasley, part of the 'Golden Trio' and friend of Harry Potter?"Ron reached up and rubbed the side of his neck as he acknowledged that yes he was 'that Ronald Weasley,' hoping that would help."Well, then, young man, how can I help you today?" asked the woman.Ron looked around and noticed there was a name plate on the desk that read Margaret Stonehill."Ms. Stonehill, I was hoping to find an address for someone I knew from school. You see, I'm not exactly sure that her father would want me to know their address," he added while he started to blush slightly. "Well, now that I'm finished with school and all that."Ms. Stonehill looked up and smiled at him, "But you're a hero now, Mr. Weasley." She then turned and looked at the name he slid to her on a piece of parchment. "Oh, I see, Mr. Weasley," she added as she looked at him from over the top of the rims of her glasses. "Someone from a different house even, it's so nice to see people willing to cross traditional house barriers, especially now that the nasty business of the war is behind us. Good on you, Mr. Weasley," she added with a brief smile.She then flipped through a couple of large tomes and then scribbled some information onto the small piece of parchment and slid it back to Ronald. "I probably shouldn't be doing this," she whispered, "but here you go, Mr. Weasley."He thanked her and smiled back at Mrs. Stonehill. Then Ron deftly pocketed the piece of paper and made his way slowly out of the building.~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Harry arrived at the Ministry of Magic with plenty of time to spare before his scheduled meeting with the newly appointed task force. He thought to himself how it felt a little odd walking through the halls as the last time he had been here was nearly a year ago and he and Hermione and Ron had to use polyjuice to sneak in to try and steal Slytherin's Locket that Umbridge had essentially stolen from Mundungus Fletcher, who had originally stolen it from Harry and Sirius even if they did know they possessed it at the time. Harry paused for a moment as he realised his whole train of thought itself was dizzying.As he stood near a large doorway, he heard someone call out his name, "Lord Potter, it was so good of you to agree to come here today."Harry turned around and saw an Auror walking towards him, the same Auror who investigated the attack outside of the bar where he and Draco had been working. The Auror reached out to shake his hand, "Auror Captain Bagley here, in case you don't recall my name," he said in way of greeting. "I'll be showing you the way up to the conference room so we can get you settled and then we'll get started."As Harry began to follow Bagley, the captain took a half step back to walk beside Harry. "It'll be an honour for many of us to work with you, Harry. May I call you Harry? Lord Potter seems a bit formal if we'll be working together.""Harry's fine, Captain Bagley," replied the younger wizard.They made their way up to the main office of the DMLE and a couple of the younger Aurors realised that they were in the presence of the Boy-Who-Lived and were awed to be with him. As they approached Bagley just glared at them and they quickly backed off and returned to their duties. He then directed Harry into his office to quickly brief him before the task force was to meet."I'm not sure how this will go down, but we will be discussing what has been happening this summer, events that have happened since the war ended," explained Bagley. "I'll warn you now though, not everyone thinks that you should be involved in this task force. Personally, I've seen you fight. Hell, you've taken down the nastiest Dark Lord we've ever had to face, you've more than earned your place here. So, don't let anyone in that room intimidate you."Harry nodded in understanding. Bagley then checked the time and led Harry to the conference room for the task force meeting. As the two men made their way to the conference room Bagley wondered if it was even possible for anyone to immediate Harry Potter. Once they arrived, Bagley quickly introduced Harry to Gawain Robards, the Director of the DMLE and Head of the Auror Department, as well as the three other Aurors who were on the task force, Smythe, Johnson, and finally Clarkson. Once everyone was seated Auror Captain Bagley explained that the Minister for Magic himself would be joining them shortly for the task force meeting. Harry wasn't surprised to be hear that announcement, as Shack had made the request himself for Harry to participate.A few minutes later and Kingsley had arrived with one of his aides in tow. He quietly acknowledged everyone in the room and he took a seat.Bagley then stood up and began to review the basics of the various attacks that had been happening, specifically the attack that occurred at Diagon Alley against Weasleys Wizard Wheezes as well as the attack against Harry and Draco earlier in the summer.Harry noted that they did not have a report on Hermione's attack on him and Draco and he chose not to reveal any information about that event at this time.Once Bagley had finished his summary, Harry spoke up. "What do you know about the clue left behind at the Weasleys' shop? Have you determined who left that message or what it means?"Bagley frowned, "We were hoping that you might help us out with that."Harry shook his head, "I think that it is clearly a reference to Fred and George, so I figured you would have already spoken to George about this."Bagley nodded, "We did but he didn't know anything about someone with a scar off hand. Some people suggested it was you."Harry laughed out loud. "Considering everyone knows who gave me this scar and the note implies that what happened was revenge for George leaving him scarred, that makes no sense at all. Does no one use their brains at all here?"There was silence in response to Harry's comments."The Shadow Lord is acting out of a desire for revenge, that much should be clear," explained Harry. "Revenge against Draco, against me, against George. Whether it be from the Battle of Hogwarts or other events during the war, but that is clearly his motivation. He said as much in his note to George. His actions against Draco and me say that as well. What did the blokes who attacked my homes tell you? Or did you find nothing left of the one who attacked my apartment the other night?""What are you talking about?" asked Robards.Harry scoffed at the man. "Talk to the goblins, they can fill you in on the details. I had to move due to my home being compromised."Then he turned to Bagley, "If you haven't heard yet, someone was trying to break into some of my vaults at Gringotts. So, if you have nothing else, I think I'm done here. If I learn anything else, I'll be sure to let you know, Auror Captain Bagley."As Harry was leaving, Robards snapped at him, "You can't just up and leave!"Harry stopped and turned and stared at the director. "And just why not? Am I being detained? Am I under arrest?"Robards had blood vessels bulging on the side of his forehead. "You're a part of this task force!""I am a free citizen who was asked to help out. I came here today and offered you what help I could," stated Harry. "Now, I am done, and I am leaving. Good day, sir."Harry took a couple of steps and then stopped and turned around again. Once he faced the clearly angry Robards he stated clearly, "If you have any problems, please take them directly to the minister, because at this point I will only be speaking to either Minister Shacklebolt or to Auror Captain Bagley."As Harry turned and walked out of the DMLE offices he muttered under his breath, 'incompetent bureaucratic oaf.'~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Ron only looked at the piece of parchment once he was a good distance away from the ministry. He made it to an apparition point and quickly apparated to the address with his wand drawn, only to find that the manor house was clearly empty and abandoned. Cautiously he approached the house after searching for wards, and he found none. Or so he thought. Two minutes after he arrived he heard the distinctive sound of apparating and he spun around to see two Aurors appear behind him with their own wands drawn."What are you doing here, Mr. Weasley?" asked the first Auror."I was looking for someone," he mumbled.The second Auror looked at Ron closely, "Any particular reason for you to come to an abandoned manor of a former Death Eater?""Just curious I guess," he stated flatly.The first Auror rolled his eyes, "Perhaps you should come explain to our captain why you chose this particular manor to explore."Ron was about to argue. "Am I under arrest?""Not at all," commented the Auror, "but I think our captain would like you to answer a few questions, then we'll let you get into whatever trouble you want to. And you may want to stay clear of abandoned Death Eater's homes in the future, however, as you were about to set off a particularly nasty trap from what I could tell."Ron turned and gaped. "Really? Where was that? I used to be really good at detecting wards back when I used to go hunting for dark items with Harry Potter during the war. Can you show me where that trap is located?"The Auror rolled his eyes and went to point it out to Ron as Ron stepped back away from the area. Once Ron was behind the Aurors he quickly apparated away from the scene.Ron reappeared in a clearing near Ottery-Saint-Catchpole. "Damn, this was probably the stupidest place for me to come," he said out loud. "This is the first place they'll search for me."Immediately after saying that he heard the popping sound of someone else apparating nearby. Ron spun around to see who had arrived, expecting to see an Auror. He was surprised to come face to face with a young woman. A young woman who happened to be pointing her wand at him."Why were you there?"Ron was caught off guard by the woman's question. He looked at her, trying to place who she might be. He realised that she had asked him a question. "What?"She was clearly irritated by his lack of meaningful response, "Why were you at my family's home?"Ron was still confused by her question, "What are you talking about?"The blonde woman, who Ron was placing at being about Ginny's age, and he seemed to vaguely remember as seeing at school at some point was still asking him these pointed questions. And she was clearly irritated with Ron. "You were snooping about at my family's home, just like those Aurors, and I want to know why."Ron was trying to put all of this together and he let his guard down when he arrived and she did have her wand drawn. "Wait, who are you?""I've got my wand pointed at you, I'm asking the questions, and yes I know who you are Ronald Weasley, part of the golden trio from Gryffindor, former best friend of Harry Potter."Ron's face turned red at her statement. "What do you mean 'former'? Harry and I are still mates!"The blonde rolled her eyes at him. "Well, you haven't been seen hanging out with him, he's been hanging out with Malfoy, and stop changing the subject!" She blew a loose strand of hair out of her face before she repeated her question. "Why were you at my house?"Ron returned to his original question, "Again, who are you?"She shook her head slightly in frustration. "Oh, that's right, you probably wouldn't recognise me, you never associated with anyone who wasn't in Gryffindor, your prejudice against Slytherins was renowned throughout the school. And don't start with your patented line of 'all snakes are evil' and 'all lions are good', because I could list plenty of lions who were Death Eaters, your pet rat for starters, and plenty of those from the house of silver and green who supported Potter and fought against the Dark Lord in both wars, my father not being one of those."Ron's mouth fell open again as his brain finally engaged. "Bloody hell, you're Catherine Yaxley, the long blonde hair should have given it away."The young Yaxley woman was impatiently tapping her foot as she kept her wand steadily pointed at its target, a certain tall, red headed young man. "Now that we have the introductions out of the way, I ask once again, why were you at my father's house?"Ron casually rubbed his chin as he responded with another question, "Not your house?""So, you noticed my choice of words," replied Catherine. "Maybe you're not as dense as your reputation, or at least not as thick as Malfoy always claimed you were."Ron tilted his head slightly, "Why aren't you in school? I thought you were in the year behind us?"Catherine lowered he wand slightly, "What place is there at Hogwarts for the daughter of a member of one of Riddle's inner circle? None that I could see, regardless of where my allegiances have ever been, its just not an environment that I think is safe for me, particularly with certain individuals still around." She raised her wand again as she renewed her questioning, "But once again you still refuse to answer my question, what brought you to my family's home?"Ron realised she was not giving up on this. "I was looking for evidence of a possible connection between your father and what happened at Diagon Alley. There I told you. Now what are you going to do with me?"She looked at him and laughed. "Really? You think you'd find anything there? If my father had anything to do with that, why look there? First of all, you must know that he is a fugitive from the ministry. The first place that the ministry would look would be at his home. Second, he would be covering his tracks pretty well by now. Third, what made you think he was involved with attacking your brother's store in the first place?"Ron realised that she was freely giving information about her father and that she seemed quite emotionally detached from the man. "The Shadow Lord, he left a clue, and I thought about what it said, and I know that the twins, Fred and George, captured your father, Yaxley, during the final battle at Hogwarts and during that battle he was injured. I since learned that after they turned him over to the Aurors he managed to escape. The clue indicated that George and Fred and Lee Jordan had managed to wound him and that he was planning to seek revenge."Catherine eyed Ron up and down. "So, you are pretty smart after all," she added with a smile. "But now what do I do with you?"Ron's face suddenly went pale, "Wait, what do you mean?""Obviously, you're planning on hunting down my father. But from what I've seen of you Weasley, I'm not sure you've really got it in you to see this through," she began to explain. "What are you prepared to do once you find my father, supposing you actually meet up with him face to face?"Ron swallowed hard.Catherine lowered her wand. "I thought so, you don't have the stones to do what you need to do. You're just going to get yourself hurt or killed. You might as well just go home. So there's no point in my helping you."Ron protested, "You're his daughter, why would you help me?"She rolled her eyes at his question. "I may be his offspring, that doesn't mean I have any love for that man. I already told you there are plenty of reasons I'm not at school, and associating with certain others who returned to Hogwarts is one of them. So, if you don't have what it takes to do this, then you're just going to get in my way.""But I thought…"She cut him off. "The problem is you don't think things through enough. You make too many assumptions, such as assuming that because someone is in the house of Salazar Slytherin that they must be evil. You probably assume that Harry Potter is being corrupted by Malfoy just by hanging out with him. My guess is the longer Draco is away from the influence of his father the better off he is, and the longer Potter is away from the influence of Dumbledore and the goody-goody views of the extreme light side the better off he is, so they're probably having the time of their lives. So, that brings us back to you. "Ron was trying to follow her logic and realised that she was waiting for a response from him. "I fought in the war, I helped Harry, I even destroyed a…"Catherine was waiting for Ron to finish his sentence. "Destroyed what?"Ron knew he couldn't tell her everything. "A really dark object."Catherine was quickly becoming convinced that Ron Weasley would not be a help to her at all. "Wow, I'm so impressed. So you broke something that was cursed. Why don't you go home where it's safe, and your mom can make your meals for you and wash your sheets for you in the morning?"Ron fired a stinging hex at the ground in front of her.She started to laugh at him.Ron was turning red again. "Why are you laughing?"Catherine smiled at him, "I finally got a reaction out of you!"Ron's face continued to turn red, "Yeah, well, you were being a right bitch!"She continued to smile. "I know, and that's one of my nicer traits. So, do you know anything more than a stinging hex? You're useless to me if that's all that you can do."Ron was feeling confused. "Yeah, I learned a lot more than that.""I should hope so," she added, "considering you were part of that DA thing that Potter organised a couple of years ago."Ron was surprised by her comment, "Did everyone know about that?"She laughed slightly, "Pretty much. So, tell me the truth, you're out here for more than just revenge about what happened to your brother's shop. From what I hear, your brother and his wife and their friends are going to be just fine."The redness was starting to leave Ron's face, but it was clear he was still upset as he explained, "The note that was left indicated that he, that the Shadow Lord, your father, he would keep coming after them."Catherine stood quietly for a minute contemplating what Ron had to say. Then she looked up at Ron, "I think we need to talk about this more, why don't we go somewhere and get something to eat, my treat?"Ron took a step back and seemed to be at a loss for words.Catherine was surprised by his hesitancy. "Where's your Gryffindor courage? Or are you still afraid of me?"Ron didn't want to be seen as a coward, especially not by someone from Slytherin. "Fine, fine, do you even have a suggestion for where we should go?"Catherine smiled at him, "I know a place."Ron was still a little uneasy with this new alliance. "But why, why are you doing this?""I already said that not everyone has the same beliefs." She turned away from Ron and started to walk away for a moment. Then she stopped, but did not turn to face him. "My Mum died when I was young. I eventually discovered that my father was responsible for her death because she didn't support Voldemort and his agenda. But I knew enough about our society to keep my mouth shut growing up for my own safety. Now I have a chance for my revenge."Ron mumbled his reply, "I, I didn't know, I'm sorry."Slowly she turned around. "No one knew. But now I need to work on finding him. He's hiding somewhere. The ministry obviously doesn't know where. Apparently they're even asking your friend Potter to help find him."~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~At the abandoned warehouse two men bring a young women who is bound.The Shadow Lord smiles as he realises that the students at Hogwarts were successful. "So, it seems that supplying them with the various items such as polyjuice potion actually paid off as they were able to abduct the younger Greengrass girl."He then turned to the men who had brought in the captive student, "Place her in the room to the left. She can be chained to the bed in there. Please provide her with food and water, we do want to keep her healthy enough so as to entice Potter to come after her, he is such a noble sort. Perhaps this trap will finally get the young half-blood to lower his guard enough so I can defeat him once and for all. He is bound to slip up sooner or later."The two man stood still on either side of the young woman, and then the Shadow Lord barked at them again, "Did I not just tell you what to do? If I wasn't clear, you were supposed to have already done that!"As the two men nearly tripped over themselves dragging the still inert form of Astoria Greengrass into the next room the Shadow Lord muttered to himself, "It is so hard to find decent help these days."~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~At dinner, Astoria Greengrass' friends were wondering why she had not been present for either the lunch or the evening meal. Finally her friends expressed their concern to the professors and the absence of Astoria Greengrass from the castle was conveyed to the headmistress. Professor McGonnagal began the investigation, but sadly, they had no leads.Initially she suspected Parkinson and Nott, but they had solid alibis for the time that Astoria had gone missing. Astoria's friends stated that they were with her until they left the library just before lunch. She then headed back to her common room on her own. The only persons seen anywhere near where Astoria was heading at that time were Ginny Weasley and Dennis Creevy. McGonagall asked those two if they had seen anything unusual and they had no idea what the headmistress was talking about. So at that point McGonagall was wondering if the missing student had decided to run away from the school, so she contacted her parents.Lord and Lady Greengrass arrived at the school shortly, and they were most distressed with the news. They had not heard anything from their daughter. It was then decided to contact Daphne, as they knew the sisters were close.Lady Greengrass was wondering how they could possibly find Daphne on such short notice. "We don't even know where she is staying lately.""I'm sure she must be with that upstart Potter," commented Lord Greengrass.Minerva pursed her lips slightly and took a deep breath before she responded. "Lord Potter-Black, Harry, is the young man who saved our world from the Dark Lord Voldemort, more than once I might add. I would hardly call that being an upstart. He is also the lord of two noble houses, again, hardly something to complain about."Lord Greengrass seemed sufficiently cowed for the moment, and Lady Greengrass looked hopeful. "Can you get a hold of him?""I can send him a message," she replied. Then quickly she cast a patronus message, "Mr. Potter, I urgently need you and Miss Greengrass to come speak with me here at Hogwarts regarding a Greengrass family matter. This is highly important that you drop whatever you are doing and either contact me or come as soon as possible."Lord Greengrass raised an eyebrow. "Using a patronus charm as a messenger service, how unique."Minerva smiled, "A little something that Albus developed during the war that he shared with close friends. Quite handy at times."Lord Greengrass was about to ask how long it would take to get a reply of some sort when Minerva's floo lit up with Harry Potter's face. "Professor," called out Harry's voice, "what seems to be the problem?""Mr. Potter," replied the headmistress, "this is a most delicate situation, I would prefer if you and Miss Greengrass would please come through and speak to us in person. I have set the wards to allow you two to use the floo for travel.""Only if you allow Susan Bones to accompany us," stated Harry simply."Oh, well, of course," answered Minerva. "Just one moment. There, now the three of you can step through."A moment later the trio of Harry, Daphne and Susan stepped through the floo and into the Headmistress' office.Lady Greengrass immediately ran to hug her daughter, but Lord Greengrass kept his distance and seemed to only glare at Harry. Harry stepped forward and greeted Daphne's father."Lord Greengrass," he began with a bow, "it is my honour and privilege to meet you."For his part, Lord Greengrass quickly realised that he could not ignore the greeting from another Lord. "Likewise, Lord Potter."Minerva McGonagall realised that the reception between some of the parties might be chilly at best and she interrupted the introductions with her own greeting to the three young arrivals.Daphne looked to the headmistress and her former transfiguration professor, "What was so urgent that you called us here together?"Minerva tried to hold back her emotions, "It seems that your sister, Astoria, has gone missing from the castle. Have you had any contact from her recently?"Daphne was shocked. "No, I haven't." She turned and looked at her parents, and saw her father was holding her mother by her shoulders. They shook their heads indicating that they had not heard from her either.McGonagall continued, "She has not been heard from or seen by her friends since just before lunch."Harry stepped up next to Daphne and put his arm around her to console her. He then looked to the headmistress. "And the castle has thoroughly been searched? You've looked for traces of her magic? You've already spoken to the last students who were with her, I presume.""The last students who she was seen with were Ginny Weasley and Dennis Creevy, but they deny having been with her at all today," replied Minerva."Do they have associate with Astoria?" asked Harry."They have not been known to be her friends," replied the headmistress.Harry scoffed, "Then it wasn't Ginny or Dennis who was with her. What time were they supposedly with Astoria? I'm sure you will find that Ginny and Dennis were somewhere else in the castle."Professor McGonagall stared silently at Harry for a moment. "Are you suggesting that someone used polyjuice potion? How would a student acquire such a thing? It is highly regulated and it is a very difficult potion to brew."Harry shook his head, "It wasn't too difficult for Hermione when we were second years, and I'm sure that if someone wanted to they could find a way to get some inside the castle."Minerva was astounded to hear Harry's claims, but Harry continued. "But the point is, I suspect that those impostors are who was behind whoever abducted Astoria."Lady Greengrass was openly crying, as she spoke up, "But why, why would someone do this?"Daphne answered before Harry could. "To get at me, so as to get at Harry. It must be this Shadow Lord. He must have students working for him now."Lord Greengrass turned and looked at Harry. "How dare you put my family at risk!"Harry turned to face the man who spoke so harshly at him. "Are you another closet Dark Lord sympathiser? Are you another blood purist who is sad I vanquished your precious half blood poser? Would you have rather I had died that day and this country be under the rule of some mad man killing everyone and anyone for his pleasure?""That's not what I said!" replied Greengrass."It sure sounded like it to me, because otherwise, I'm not responsible for this Shadow Lord's actions," snapped Harry. "Why is it that every crazed wanker out there is my fault? Some follower of Riddle's escapes from the ministry and he has a grudge against me and I'm the one to blame?""You're the one to blame for putting my family at risk," countered Lord Greengrass."I'm the one to blame then for choosing to get involved with Harry," said Daphne as she stepped in between Harry and her father.Lord Greengrass was speechless at his daughter's comments.Lady Greengrass then spoke up as she turned to the headmistress. "But what are we going to do about this?"Minerva tried to comfort the distraught family. "I have alerted the ministry and the DMLE, they will be sending a member of the Task Force for dealing with the Shadow Lord, or so they relayed to me in a message."Harry smiled slightly, "Say hello to Auror Captain Bagley when he arrives."Minerva was confused by Harry's comment, "What do you mean? Where are you going?" She noticed that Harry now had taken Susan and Daphne by the arms.Harry had guided his two girlfriends towards the floo. Just before stepping through, he replied, "I'll be looking for the Shadow Lord, and for Astoria, obviously someone has to go find her, and it looks like once again it will be up to me to solve this problem. But considering that Daphne's sister's life may be at stake, I don't have time to waste, now do I."With that comment, the three of them stepped through the floo and back to Grimmauld Place.





--------




AN: Sorry for the long delay. And for the short chapter. But the story is moving on and we're getting closer to resolving the Shadow Lord arc and getting back to Going Muggle...which was the point of the story in the first place...so the story will NOT end with the end of the Shadow Lord. Thank you for your patience. I will be incorporating some answers/replies to some reviews within the story, including some of the anonymous guest reviews. You may be able to spot them as they are not necessarily hidden within the dialogue too deeply. While I have not blocked guest reviews, they are a bit of a pain and frankly, kind of immature as I cannot respond to them, so I usually simply ignore them. If you leave a review that I cannot respond to then it seems to me to be of little value. Reviews that have pointed out grammar mistakes I have used to go and correct the grammar. Now, on with the story...Earlier that afternoon — before it was clear that Astoria Greengrass had gone missing from Hogwarts…...Ron Weasley and Catherine Yaxley had arrived at an alleyway, and then Catherine led Ron into a nearby restaurant. Soon they were seated down for an early dinner. Ron was still surprised that he was allowing himself to be led around by a Slytherin whom he had just met. Catherine had made sure to request a table in a corner and she had carefully put up privacy wards around them as they were in a muggle area."So, Ron Weasley," she began once the wards were in place, "what exactly do you know about what has been going on?""I already told you that I'm tracking down this Shadow Lord, and that I determined that it was Yaxley, your father," explained a frustrated Ron, "based on the clues he left behind after he attacked my brother and his shop.""But what do you know about why he is doing these things?" asked Catherine.Ron continued in his frustration, "I already told you that I was pretty sure it was based on revenge. Revenge against my brother and Lee Jordan because they captured him during the war, and then sent him off with an Auror recruit and somehow during all of that he must have gotten hurt. Then there is revenge against Harry, and probably me and Hermione too, for escaping from him grasp at the Ministry of Magic last fall, not to mention Harry defeating the Dark Lord."They paused their conversation as they ordered their meal."But you're still just reacting to what he has done," commented Catherine. "And so far, all you've managed to do is identify him. Do you really think you'll be able to find him?"Ron stared at her in silence for a moment. "I'll keep searching for him until I do," he added strongly."And you'll either end up dead because he will find you first, or you're going to get exhausted because you just won't find him. He's been at these games longer than you. No offence, Red, but you're too new to these games.""Not so new," he huffed, "I helped Harry bring down Voldemort.""Yesterday's news," she said dismissively, "and that was still mostly Potter. But you need to get your head in this game if you have any chance of winning here, and to do that, like I said earlier, you can't do it alone.""So, you said," muttered Ron. "So you're just going to help me track down your father so I can capture him or even kill him?""We already established that, Red, so pay better attention," she said with a slight chuckle. "It's a wonder Granger put up with you for so long."Ron decided to ignore her jibe. "So, where do we begin this search for you father?"Catherine smiled at him now, "As I explained earlier, and you already found out, he won't be in any of his homes, but he has some businesses, owned by other names that the ministry doesn't know about so he doesn't pay taxes on them."Ron frowned at this. "Where are these located?""All over England," she replied and then she took a sip from her glass of water as their meals were set before them."How many in London?"Catherine looked up at the ceiling as she was mentally calculating. "I would say, about ten."Ron stifled a gasp as he heard the number. "When do we start?"Catherine's smile turned feral, "Now."Ron was feeling very confused at this point, "What?""He owns this restaurant," she explained.Ron shook his head in confusion, "But this is a muggle restaurant."Catherine laughed slightly at Ron's protestation. "How do you think he hides his money from the ministry of magic, or even hid it from the Dark Lord? It was so much safer to place it in the muggle world. The Ministry of Magic never looked here, and Voldemort sure as hell never looked here either."Ron was rubbing his forehead as he tried to come to grips with her explanation. "But I thought you said he hates muggles."Catherine's grin continued, "Oh, he does, but he likes his money more. Doesn't mean he cares two knuts about these employees. At least the food is good."Ron looked around the restaurant as he continued to eat his meal. "So, we check out the building, then if we find nothing after this, were do we go next?""You're the Gryffindor genius who helped Potter find the Dark Lord's weakness and defeat him," she replied. "All I know is that my father owned a bunch of muggle businesses. I only identified a couple of them. I still need to figure out what the other ones are that he owned, and then we need to track down where he is."Ron was still puzzled. "Why do you think I can help you with that?"She smiled at him. "You're the one who managed to find my father's home address. How did you manage to do that? Clearly you're not as dimwitted as Malfoy claimed. I already told you that. You obviously have some smarts. I found you trespassing on my family property, as did a couple of Aurors who were about to bring you in for questioning when you managed to slip away from them, I might add. And no, they had no idea I was there either. It was then a simple matter of tracking your apparating. And, no, I'm not about to tell you how I managed to do that."Ron scowled at her.Catherine smirked in response to his scowl. "Which leaves you stuck helping me whether you like it or not. It's a good thing for you I'm growing to like you, Red, so you'll just have to get used to helping this lonely little snake find her missing daddy. You want revenge. I want vengeance. It should all work out fine. And once we're done, we can go our separate ways, or not, your choice."Ron shook his head in bewilderment at the unusual blonde sitting across from him. This day sure was different from what he expected. It could be worse, and it sure didn't hurt that she was so attractive his thoughts added."Besides, even if you do find him," she added, "if you go barging in to whatever place he is holed up in, he is sure not to be alone, and you're bound to get yourself hurt, or worse. And I know I'm not going to do any better on my own. But at least together we should be able to track him down. Now, we just need to a plan to find out who own's this restaurant."Ron tilted his head as he responded to her statement, "But you said your father owns the restaurant."She muttered under her breath, then spoke to him. "It is not going to be in his name. It may be in a holding company, or a pseudonym. We need that information. Which we may be able to get when my jealous boyfriend gets upset because the waiter just made a pass at me."Ron felt even more confused. "What are you talking about?"Catherine gave a sly smile at her new friend. "Don't you dare fall back on your stupid git personality from back at school right now." Then she quickly kicked him under the table and glared at him. "Play your role properly or we're not getting anywhere today.""Oi!" he yelled out. Ron was clearly upset."Mad now aren't you?" It was clearly a statement more than a question.Ron was turning red, "Of course I am!""Good," she replied, "now when the manager comes over to find out why you just screamed, you just tell him that the waiter made a pass at me and you want to speak to the owner about his hiring practices."Ron started to frown at her as the manager walked up to the table."Is something wrong here?" he asked looking between the young couple.Ron was still scowling at Catherine. "Apparently there is," he said through gritted teeth.She smiled at him encouragingly, all of which the manager took in, assuming that there was a clear disagreement between the couple.Ron swallowed hard and then turned to face the manager. "The waiter here seemed to think it was fine to make a pass at my girlfriend. I, for one, did not think it was okay. Catherine didn't want me to make a big deal about it, but I felt I needed to say something to somebody. I'd like to speak to the owner about just what kind of people he hires around here."The manager stiffened at the comments from Ron. "Really sir, I hardly think that is called for, perhaps it was all just a misunderstanding. If I were to just speak with the waiter…"Ron feeling braver at the moment interrupted the manager. "Then I am sure he would just deny the whole thing. Look, I'm sure neither one of us want to draw this out into a big scene here in front of everyone. All I want to do is speak to someone, someone above your station, and we'll call it good."The manager looked from Ron to Catherine and back. He sighed heavily, "Well then, if that is all that it will take, then I will bring you the business card for the owners. They aren't here today. Will that suffice?"Ron paused for a moment and took a deep breath. "I suppose that it will do."The manager turned and walked away and Ron let out a breath he wasn't aware he was holding.As the manager stepped away Catherine shot Ron a big smile. "You did wonderful, that was exactly what we needed out of him. If only he had also offered to comp the meal, then we would have been even better off." She then stood up from the table and started to walk away.Ron felt confused. "Now where are you going?"She winked at him, "Do you have any pound notes?"Ron shook his head in confusion."Muggle money," she explained. "I didn't think so, we can't pay here with galleons. I'll be right back, hopefully with a way to pay for our meals before they really get mad at us." Ron followed her with her eyes as she headed towards the loo. He wondered how she was going to find muggle money in the loo.A few minutes later Catherine reappeared from the loo with a smile and she noted that Ron apparently already had the business card of the owners of the restaurant."How did you get muggle money from the loo?" he wondered out loud as she sat down across from him.She playfully swatted him on the shoulder as she answered, "Don't be such a dunderhead, as Snape would say. I simply apparated out of here to Diagon Alley, exchanged some galleons for muggle currency, and now we can pay the tab for the meal. By the way, you owe me for the meal."Ron shook his head feeling confused again, "How is that?"She sighed, "It's only proper for the boy to pay for the meal on a first date, isn't it?""I didn't know this was a date," he protested.Catherine glared at him, "But you called the manager over and told him I was your girlfriend."Ron felt a major headache coming on as he realised he never could figure out women. Noting his confusion, Catherine laughed at him, "I'm teasing you about the girlfriend part, but not about paying for the meal, Red."Ron sighed in relief, wondering if he truly was relieved.Twenty minutes later they were walking down the street, hand-in-hand. Ron was still a little confused about everything that was happening.To try and deal with his confusion he asked her, "Where are we going?""To a library," Catherine stated simply.Ron didn't feel reassured by her answer. "What are we needing to study?"Catherine stopped but didn't let go of Ron's hand. She leaned in and gave him a kiss on the lips. Ron was even more confused."You know, you're even more cute when you're confused, although, if you don't start getting smarter I will have to leave you behind," she began to explain. "You can't really be this stupid. I know you've got a brain in there, you just need to engage it more often. First of all, if anyone is looking for you right now after you ditched an Auror, they won't expect to find you with a girl, and they expect you to be hiding. So walking down the street, in plain sight, with a girl, is the best place for you to hide. Second, we're going to a public library to use a muggle device called a computer. We're doing this so we can look up information about this company listed on the business card you obtained at the restaurant. That will be the key to where else we need to look."Ron nodded in understanding, "Then we'll be able to start searching for your father, the Shadow Lord."Catherine smiled at him, "Exactly."Ron was glad he was beginning to understand. "And then we can go after him."Catherine frowned at his conclusion. "Wrong."Ron was confused again. "Wait, I thought that's why we're doing all of this."Catherine shook her head. "We are, but we're not about to do it alone. What chance do you think either the ministry or your buddy Potter has in finding my father? Do they even know who the Shadow Lord is?"Ron considered her question for a moment. "Harry might have figured it out by now, if I have. Bloody hell, even Hermione should have figured it out by now." Ron paused at that realisation before he added, "And then I'm in trouble."Now it was Catherine's turn to feel confused. "Why would you be in trouble with her? I thought you two are over."Ron shifted from one foot to the other. "We are, but I've been on her case about her and Malfoy, and also on Harry's case about him being with Greengrass. You know, all that 'slimy snake' stuff and all. And now I find myself hanging out with a Slytherin myself."Catherine smiled at him, realising that she was beginning to get past his initial resistance to her house and her family background. "Well, I don't bite, at least not yet anyway, unless you want me to…"Ron took a step back from her, not sure if she was serious or joking."Close your mouth Red, you don't want to catch flies," she finally added. She took him by the hand again as they headed off to the library.~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Back at Grimmauld Place, Harry was not in a pleasant mood."Is your father always so pleasant?" he wondered aloud as he looked at Daphne.Daphne was nearly in tears, "He is a harsh man, and I'm sure he is probably more angry with me than with you. He had planned to arrange a marriage for me with some business partner from somewhere on the mainland. But you have interfered with his plans. It matters not that you're a better financial situation for him, the fact that you and I interfered with his plans is more than enough to set him off." She paused and sat down as she stared at the floor, feeling hopeless, "And now this, his favourite daughter has been taken."Harry walked over to her to comfort her, while Susan stood back, unsure of what to do. The awkward silence in the room was broken as Draco and Hermione arrived.Draco spoke up first as he noted the dark mood, "So, who's funeral are we about to miss?"Hermione slapped him on the shoulder and glared at him for his callousness.Susan glared as well but Harry stood up as he began to explain things to the two newcomers. "We just learned that Astoria, Daphne's sister, has apparently been abducted from Hogwarts. It seems to be the work of the Shadow Lord with some help from some as of yet unidentified students."Harry could see rage starting to rise in Draco's eyes while Hermione simply gasped in surprise. Meanwhile, Susan was now trying to comfort her friend Daphne who was trying to be strong.Draco looked from Harry to Daphne as he tried to gauge the situation and guess Harry's plan."You're not about to run right after her, are you?" he asked."How can I?" laughed Harry with an eerie tone to his voice. "No one seems to know where the Shadow Lord is, so we don't know where to find him or Astoria."The friends gathered around the table in the dining room as they continued to discuss the situation. "I presume the DMLE is getting involved now," commented Draco."The task force has been called in," replied Harry as he looked over to Daphne who was now surrounded by Susan and Hermione."Your task force," added Draco."Whatever," commented Harry. "But there is little we can do without a lead."Hermione looked at Harry, "But you must have a lead. You must have some idea who the Shadow Lord is, particularly with the clues he left at the shop."Harry looked to Hermione, "I suppose you have it figured out already.""I have my suspicions," she replied.Draco looked back and forth between the two and finally broke into their conversation. "Would the two of you quit the gamesmanship and just tell us who you think it is?"Draco's stern tone surprised both of them and they simultaneously announced that they thought that the Shadow Lord was Yaxley.Harry and Hermione stared at each other while Draco's expression was on of relief. "At least we're getting somewhere. Does anyone else have any idea who the Shadow Lord is?"Hermione but her lip as she considered the question, while Harry simply answered "I doubt it. I don't think anyone else would be able to decipher the clues."Hermione wondered out loud, "If we could, perhaps Ron could figure it out too."Draco scoffed at such an idea. "We're talking about Weasley here, right?"Hermione rolled her eyes at Draco's comment. "He may not have been the best student but he was never stupid. He may very well have figured this out," she said in her ex-boyfriend's defence.Harry shook his head, "But that's beside the point right now. We just need to figure out what to do to track him down."Draco nodded in understanding. Meanwhile Susan was still trying to comfort Daphne who was just listening to the exchange between the group of friends.~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~…At Hogwarts…Auror Captain Bagley had arrived at Headmistress McGonagall's office to find a distraught Lord and Lady Greengrass in addition to a clearly upset and frustrated school staff."Thank you for coming so quickly, Captain," stated the headmistress as the Captain had introduced himself to those who were present."Anything that may involve the work of the Shadow Lord is now my highest priority," he replied simply and sincerely. He then turned to the Lord and Lady Greengrass, "Is there any particular information that you can share with me about your daughter's disappearance?"Lord Greengrass was still angry, particularly over the way Harry Potter had left with his other daughter. "I'm sure that somehow this has something to do with Potter. That arrogant brat just stormed out of here refusing to help!"Captain Bagley paused and looked at Professor McGonagall. "I'm sorry to have wasted your time. I didn't realise that a member of my task force had already arrived to investigate this abduction. If Lord Potter has already questioned everyone involved…"Captain Bagley was cut off by an even angrier Lord Greengrass. "What on earth are you prattling on about? That arrogant little shite came in here, absconded with my other daughter and was no help at all!""If you are referring to Lord Potter," replied the Auror Captain, "who may I remind you is a hero for all of magical Britain, is a member of my task force for dealing with the threat of the Shadow Lord. If it is true that the report of your missing daughter is somehow related to the Shadow Lord then Lord Potter will be helping us to find her, of that I am sure.""What? That little runt? What could he possibly do?" grumbled Lord Greengrass."For starters, apparently in your anger you forget that he took down the Dark Lord Voldemort," replied Bagley, forcing himself to remain calm, "and I have also personally seen him in a wizard's duel. I would daresay not many would fare well against the young man in such a situation. Of that, I am quite certain."Lady Greengrass was tugging on her husband's sleeve to try and get him to calm down and back off his verbal attacks. She spoke up to voice her own concerns. "But sir, what is it that can be done? Lord Potter has already left, and where he went we have no idea. Where our daughter is, we have no idea. And it seems no one has any idea where this Shadow Lord is."Bagley inclined his head towards the Lady Greengrass. "You are correct in that we have very little information to go on. But we will be working on all of those fronts, including getting a better understanding of just who may have been involved in your daughter's abduction."Professor McGonagall shook her head. "I am afraid that any questioning we have done to that end has led us nowhere."Bagley seemed unfazed by her reply. "Then we'll just have to keep working at it as there has to be a way to find out just what happened. Now, Professor McGonagall, if I could have detailed statements from anyone who actually saw anything. Then we can begin our investigation."McGonagall seemed put off at first. "We already spoke with the students who last saw Miss Greengrass. They all stated that the last students who were seen with her were a Miss Ginevra Weasley and a Mr. Dennis Creevy. However, at that time those two students were known to be elsewhere within the castle and under questioning it is clear that they had absolutely no contact with the missing student."The Greengrasses were visibly irritated to hear this story retold, which was noted by Bagley. He nodded and then commented, "So how is it then that two students were able to obtain polyjuice potion and use it to hide their appearance? What students were unaccounted for during the time that the mysterious doppelgangers of these students were seen in the presence of Miss Greengrass?"Professor McGonagall looked like she had just swallowed a lemon. "I'm afraid that would be rather difficult to ascertain. We are not in the habit of taking a roll call every minute of the day, and we are not sure exactly what time it all happened."Bagley shook his head. "The issue is you have a time when there were two people passing themselves off as two other students. Those clearly are your responsible parties in this situation. Whomever changed themselves to look like this Miss Weasley and Mr. Creevy, they are the ones involved. They are the ones without an alibi for where they were. We need to start investigating the entire student body." He then turned to the professors. "Perhaps making it clear to he heads of the houses and their prefects, we will be by tomorrow to review everyone's explanation for where they were at the time that that Miss Greengrass was last seen.""But it's a Hogsmeade weekend," protested one of the professors.Bagley nearly snorted in response. "I don't care if the Queen of England herself was coming, we have a student who was missing and apparently two other students were involved, to the point of using polyjuice potion to implicate two other students. We are investigating this situation and we will get answers. If anyone doesn't want to help I'm sure they can explain their reasons to Lord Greengrass sufficiently and if he allows them to be excused, then we will be happy to excuse them as well."With that statement Bagley bowed slightly to the Greengrasses and then again to Professor McGonagall, "We will be back here bright and early, with a full team to begin these inquiries, say by 8 in the morning." Then he promptly turned and left.Watching the Auror Captain leave, Minerva McGonagall muttered in her frustration, "Well, I never…"In reply, Filius Flitwick replied in a low voice, "You do now, Minerva. I for one am glad to see the DMLE taking this so seriously. It's a refreshing change after the way they dealt with things for the seven years Harry was a student, or at least the time he was supposed to be a student."~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~…Back at Grimmauld Place…"We will have to start parts of our investigation tomorrow," commented Harry. "There's nothing more we can do tonight. I'll contact Bagley, let him know what we know, and we'll begin searching for Yaxley.""But where will you begin your search?" wondered Hermione.Harry shrugged, "I have no idea."Draco leaned back, "I'll head over to Hogsmeade." He noted everyone staring at him and he then went on to explain. "I know who I will need to speak to there, a couple of students who may have some information for us."Hermione smiled in understanding, "Do you want me to come with you?"Draco shook his head, "Sorry, but no. I don't think your presence would help me get any answers."Daphne then turned to Harry. She was still visibly upset and asked him to come up to her room with her. He readily agreed to go with her to help comfort her.Hermione then went to speak with Susan, who was also upset. She could tell that the former Hufflepuff was feeling left out as Harry was off with Daphne. She tried to reassure her as she explained that Daphne probably just needed reassurance over her sister having been kidnapped .Draco sat down to join the two girls in their conversation.Susan however was able to pick up on a tension between Hermione and Draco.She then decided to ask Hermione about it. "Whats wrong with you two? You both seem so tense."Hermione bristled at the question.Draco raised an eyebrow and asked her to answer.Hermione turned to Draco, "You're heading off to speak to your old friends, and you made it clear you don't want me to come with you."Draco sighed and then he began to explain. "They'll probably be at Hogsmeade, as I said. You could come with me, but I doubt that would go over well, with them. Seeing you, they'd probably either avoid me or refuse to talk to me."Hermione bit her lip.Draco ran his hand through his hair. "No, I am not ashamed to be seen with you, but I know how they are. If I'm going to be talking to Slytherins who still have their minds set on pure blood hatred of others, they're going to fixate on hating you and I won't be able to get anything out of them."He gave her a hug to try and reassure her.Susan leaned in against her shoulder briefly. She looked sadly at Hermione, "The sad thing is, I have to agree with him. I think he might be right. They're still going to judge you, unfairly, based on your family background."~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~The next day - HogsmeadeDraco Malfoy made his way into Hogsmeade village and into the Three Broomsticks. He was grateful for the cloak he was wearing so that he wouldn't be easily recognised. He glanced through the crowd and quickly discerned that the people he was looking for weren't there. He then made his way to the Hog's Head Inn. He smirked to himself, recalling how Hermione had told him stories of clandestine meetings that Potter and his friends had held there, and how he was surprised that he and his friends had not found them out as they had often used it as their own meeting place. Sure enough, he found his targets sitting at a table in the dingy bar, so he decided to join them. As he sat down he removed the hood that obscured his face.Theodore Nott and Pansy Parkinson were startled to have anyone join them. They were also surprised to see their former friend and accomplice sitting with them."Well, well, look what the cat dragged in," drawled Theodore.Draco laughed at his former friend, "I'm just staring at what the cat coughed up, old friend."Theodore wasn't sure if he should be mad at Draco or not, as he tried to determine if it was meant as an insult or as a joke. Draco let him stew on it as he turned to Pansy. "You look as miserable as ever, my dear," he added, "have you been up to your old scheming ways? Mistreating muggleborns? Harassing the younger students?"Pansy snorted at his comments. "I would have figured if you had returned to school, you would have been right there with us," she said sweetly, but then her tone turned sour. "But from what I hear, you've turned your back on your family and your upbringing."Draco looked taken aback. "I've learned to never turn my back on anyone, otherwise you end up with either a knife or a spell hitting you there."Nott managed to laugh at Draco's comment this time. Draco smiled back at Theodore."Draco, you've changed," commented Pansy, as she looked up at her one time boyfriend. "You're not yourself. It's like you're a different a person, some other character or something."Draco smiled back at her. "I'm not my father, and I'm not living under his thumb. I'm my own man, and I'm able to make my own choices. But that's not what I'm here to talk about. You two, I know you well. You two have never changed. You've always been quite the cunning little Slytherins.""Why thank you," replied Pansy as she smiled even more broadly."That wasn't a complement, Pansy," added Draco.Pansy frowned.Theodore was smart enough to realise that this conversation was quickly heading in a direction that was not going to be pleasant. "So, what's your point, Malfoy?"Turning to face Theodore, Draco replied, "My point, Nott, is that I am pretty sure that you two were involved in the disappearance of Astoria Greengrass."Theodore felt confident that there was no way anyone could positively connect them to the disappearance of the girl, so he wasn't afraid to respond, "Even if we were, so what?"Draco smiled at Theodore. "You've never been too bright, have you, Theo. Let me try and explain things to you slowly and as clearly as possible. First of all, you don't do things like that to fellow Slytherins. It goes against the house rules. Second, you must not have thought this through very far. You kidnapped someone. And you didn't do as good job as you thought you did. The people you tried to frame by using polyjuice have sound alibis elsewhere. Third, you didn't think about the ramifications of your actions fully. I'm sure whomever hired you promised you riches. I'm sure this all has to do with Harry Potter. This Shadow Lord guy, do you really think he is more powerful than the Dark Lord Voldemort? Potter already defeated him how many times? The last time was forever. And this Shadow Lord comes along, out of the blue and has some fancy new plan and you think this guy can do what the Dark Lord could never do?"By this time Theodore was starting to turn pale as he listened to what Draco was implying.Pansy however, wasn't about to let this new version of Malfoy frighten her. "I don't know who you think you are, coming in here and trying to frighten us or threaten us. The Draco Malfoy I know would never stand up for Potter and would never threaten a fellow Slytherin. So what if some little girl goes missing? Serves her right if her sister is hanging out with Potter! It's not like anyone is like to find her anyway. Who knows what the Shadow Lord has done with her by now.""So you do know something about it then, don't you, Parkinson?" questioned Draco."I'll deny it once your friend Potter shows up," she snapped. "It's not like your word with any Aurors is going to do any good. Especially once I tell them all some stories about you.""Tell them anything you want, Pansy," said Draco with a smile, "but you just told them everything you told me, because two of them are sitting in this room listening."With that statement, two men who had been sitting in the corner under dark cloaks removed them and came over to the table where the three young people were sitting. "If I heard you correctly, Miss Parkinson, you essentially just confessed to being involved with the kidnapping of Miss Astoria Greengrass yesterday and handing her over to the individual known as the Shadow Lord."Pansy glared at Draco Malfoy. "You bastard, I hate you. And I'm still going to tell them about things you did at school!"Draco glared right back at her. "Go ahead, I'm not afraid, I've got nothing to hide anymore. I'm not doing my father's dirty work anymore."Pansy laughed at him as the Aurors placed her and Theodore in magic inhibiting manacles. "Don't fool yourself Draco," she said as the Aurors took her away.~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Harry was reviewing his notes he had made of where he could possibly begin searching for Yaxley. Even after researching all that they could find on the man, neither he, nor Susan, nor Hermione could come up with any leads on what to do next. In the meantime, Draco was off to Hogsmeade to try and gather information from some students who might know what happened to Astoria.Harry slammed a fist on the table. Susan jumped in her chair, startled by his sudden outburst.Hermione looked at Harry, silently feeling his pain.Susan finally spoke up, "Getting angry about this isn't helping anyone, especially Daphne and Astoria."Harry leaned forward, holding his head in his hands, feeling his frustration. "We know who the Shadow Lord is, but we have no way of finding him! Since we have no way of finding him, I have no way of finding Astoria. I promised Daphne we would find her!"Susan stood up and went to rub his shoulders to comfort him. "You've been working on this every waking hour since last night. We all know you're doing everything you can.""But how am I supposed to find him?" he asked out loud.Hermione mused, "We need more information, something to help us figure out where he might be."Just then there was a noise from the floo. A voice called out."Harry, are you there Harry?"Hermione was the first to speak. "Is that Ron making a floo call?"Harry looked up, clearly surprised. "Sure sounds like him."Hermione turned to Harry, "Then go answer him all ready!"Harry walked over to the floo, and spoke back to Ron, "We're kind of busy here today Ron, maybe we can chat some other time."Ron started to protest Harry's dismissal. "No mate, I need to speak with you, and it would be best to do it now, in person. If you're at your godfather's old home, I wanted to make sure the wards would let me through."Harry looked at the two girls who shrugged their approval back to Harry. "Sure Ron, come on over. The wards are already set to let you come through."Ron smiled and then he added, "There's just one thing, I need you to add someone for me. Add someone else to the wards. Someone who can help us find the Shadow Lord."Hermione looked at Harry in surprise, "That sounds useful Harry."Harry nodded in agreement and then turned back to Ron's glowing face in the floo call. "Okay, who is this person."Ron hesitated at first before he responded. "Promise me you won't get mad."Harry was puzzled by this odd request. "I have Draco Malfoy as a roommate and he's dating your former girlfriend, and you're asking me to not get mad. Who do you have with you?"Ron took a deep breath. "Someone who can help us find the Shadow Lord. Like I said, she can help. And I've learned I can trust her.""All right mate," said Harry, "what's her name so I can add her to the wards so she can arrive with you?"Ron breathed a sigh of relief. Then he answered Harry, "Her name is Catherine Yaxley."





--------




AN: Sorry for the delay, writer's block and all that, plus wanting to make sure I got some of the details right for how I wanted this part of the story to go. This chapter is a little longer than the most recent ones, so I hope all of the readers will enjoy that. The Shadow Lord arc will be coming to a close very soon...so read on.This chapter will have some surprises...so of course, read on...Oh, and thanks again for reading...The kitchen at Grimmauld Place…Draco was standing to one side of the kitchen table, ready to draw his wand. Hermione was biting her lip, standing just off Draco's side, anxious about seeing Ronald again, and surprised that he was in the company of a Slytherin, particularly surprised of who the particular Slytherin was who would be accompanying him through the floo.Just then Ron stepped through the floo only to come face to face with Harry Potter, who had his wand drawn and pointed at him."It's me, Harry," said Ron, holding his hands up, showing he had nothing in them, "your best mate. Or at least I used to be. Catherine should be right behind me."There was the sound of ashes being scattered and the clap of two feet landing on the stone hearth as a blond woman appeared next to Ron Weasley and casually started to brush the dust off of her robes. She looked over at Harry and smiled slightly. "Sorry to be a bother," she spoke softly, "but we thought you might need some of the information we had about the Shadow Lord."She turned and faced Draco and involuntarily took a step back after noticing his glare.Draco was the first to speak. "Why should any of us trust you, Yaxley?"Catherine tilted her head, "You know how funny that sounds coming from a Malfoy? Honestly, I'm sure none of you have any particular reason to trust me, although the person in this room least likely to trust a snake is the one who brought me here, isn't that right, Red." She added with a smile as she turned to face Ron.Hermione felt nauseated witnessing the sickly sweet scene in front of her as Catherine Yaxley kissed Ron on the cheek. Ron in turn blushed, but Harry still didn't drop his wand."You said you had information that could help us," said Harry bluntly."Yes, about the Shadow Lord," answered Catherine."We already know that your father IS the Shadow Lord," hissed Draco.Hermione stepped closer to Draco and grasped his hand in order to try and calm him down.Catherine turned to Ron as she spoke, "You were right, they could figure it out on their own, just like you did, Red." She turned back to face the group staring at her. "He probably did figure it out quicker then you, he even tracked down my father's old house, even nearly got caught by Aurors wondering why he showed up there, but that's not the point of why we're here, now is it.""Why are you here?" asked Susan who finally got the nerve to speak.Catherine grinned like the Cheshire Cat. "Do you have any idea where to look for my father? No, I didn't think so," she added when she noticed the blank stares from everyone in the room.Before she could say anything further, the group was interrupted by the sounds of someone walking into the room. A tall blonde woman, whose hair was clearly disheveled, who had a man's shirt partially buttoned and an oversized pair of sweatpants on came walking into the kitchen. Daphne Greengrass clearly was not expecting there to be any guests present. She clearly was not expecting there to be anyone present at this late hour in the morning when she arrived at the kitchen.Susan looked up and quickly made inferences as to the reasons for her appearance and ran upstairs towards her room, crying.Hermione and Draco simply stared at Daphne in shock at the appearance of her. Ron's jaw dropped and Catherine was about to smack him in the face for staring. Harry was starting to mumble an introduction when Daphne pulled out her wand and pointed it at Catherine Yaxley."What is this woman doing here?" she exclaimed. "Do you all have any idea who she is?"Harry stepped between Daphne and Catherine, "Yes, we know she is a Yaxley, and she apparently is going to help us track down her father."Suddenly Daphne realised how she was attired in front of guests and Draco and Hermione. "Bloody hell," she whispered, as she then apparated back into her bedroom.Hermione looked from Draco to Harry and then added, "I think I better go find Susan, and you, Mr. Potter, may have a lot of explaining to do."Hermione then went to go find Susan leaving Harry facing Draco. Draco just shook his head, "Not my problem, mate, it's your house, your women. You're the one who will have to sort it all out. You're the one with the two names, the two titles, the two women."Harry turned around and looked at Ron and Catherine as he was about to apologise for the scene that just happened, Catherine spoke up, "Did we arrive at a bad time?"Ron, meanwhile, had turned completely red in the face. "Harry, remind me to never be envious of anything you have. Ever."Harry let out a slight laugh at what Ron said. "Why don't we all just have a seat? We'll work on sorting this all out and listen to what information you have to say. In the mean time, I think I need to go speak with a few people."Harry first went to speak with Daphne, as he knew that Hermione had gone to speak with Susan. Upon approaching Daphne's room, he discovered her leaving her room, much more appropriately attired, with her hair done up in her usual fashion. As Harry went to say something to her she silenced him with a finger to his lips."Don't say a thing Harry," she said quietly and gently. "Nothing that happened down stairs was your fault. I am a big girl and I am not about to blame you for anything." She smiled at him and even kissed him on the lips, and then she walked past him and made her way down to the kitchen.Harry was stunned by her reaction, but then after a moment he shook off his reaction and made his way to Susan's room. As he was about to knock on her door, he was surprised that the door opened and a cheerful Hermione and Susan were making their way out of the room and were heading back to the kitchen. Susan paused as she passed Harry. She leaned in close to him as she said, "I understand that you have us both. It is just that with Astoria being kidnapped, and with your obviously having spent the night with Daphne, I felt that you were choosing her over me. Hermione helped me see that my reaction may have been childish and jealous, that Daphne may have needed you more last night, and that it no way was meant as a rejection of me."Harry was surprised by all of this coming from Susan and being said so quickly that he felt momentarily stunned and stood motionless in the hallway. Susan gave him a quick kiss on the lips which seemed to break him from his stupor and reawaken him.Soon he had joined everyone back in the kitchen and once again they were ready to discuss what information they had and work on forming a plan to help rescue Astoria. The gathering of friends, new and old, was reviewing what information that they already had learned.Draco started by recounting what happened earlier when he was at Hogsmeade. "Other than getting Nott and Parkinson to admit that they were involved with abducting Astoria, I'm afraid that I really didn't learn anything further." He looked at Daphne apologetically, and then continued, "I presume the Aurors will try to get more out of them, but from what I could gather from their answers to me, they probably have no idea who they actually handed her off to or where they took her."Catherine Yaxley then spoke up, "Ron was on to something when he tracked down my father's address, however, he is smart man and he hasn't been living there since Potter defeated his master." She noted that Granger was still eyeing her carefully and she interrupted her own explanations to deal with the glares she was receiving. "I understand you don't trust me, just like Red here didn't at first. Yes, the Shadow Lord is my father, but I long ago gave up considering him family. I'm not about to start telling you my personal history of why, but I've heard enough from Red to understand why you might not trust me and why you may hate my father."The bluntness of her words startled Hermione, and this time Draco was trying to comfort her as he gently squeezed her hand under the table where they were seated. Hermione simply responded with a raised eyebrow at her words.Catherine then continued, "The real issue that we all have is where is he? I'm sure he must be hiding out in one of the buildings of one of the businesses he owns." She then nudged Ron with her elbow.Ron jumped slightly at the elbow in his ribs and then he began to explain. "Yeah, well, we managed to get a list of these muggle companies that Yaxley, the Shadow Lord, owns."Hermione interrupted him, "How did you manage to do that? Did Catherine just hand it to you?" Her voice was clearly testy.Ron looked at Catherine for a moment and then back at Hermione. "No, not at all, it wasn't like that. She didn't even know what his companies were, we had to track some of this down. She only knew one of the businesses he owned, a muggle restaurant. From there we found out the holding company, and then we found out several other businesses that he owns.""Not bad, Weasel," commented Draco, "you actually do have a brain and know how to use it."Hermione kicked Draco under the table and whispered to him to behave. He whispered back to her that her attitude wasn't helping any either. Harry simply glared at the two of them and mouthed the words "Cut it out."Harry then spoke up, "So, how many businesses are there for us to check out?"Ron frowned, "That's the problem, there are about fifteen, and some of them have multiple buildings."Daphne shook her head, "That could take a week or more to search all of them."Susan disagreed, "Not necessarily, we would have to review the list. And the buildings. Some of the business may not be suitable for hiding someone, and wherever they are hiding her is probably surrounded by wards."Hermione listened to Susan's comments and added her own, "So if we had a map and a general description of the buildings we could do this more easily. Then we could scan the general areas for wards to help narrow our search."Catherine smiled at the group, "This is why teamwork is better than doing it on our own, Red."The room was suddenly subjected to the loud rumblings of Ron's stomach. Everyone stared at Ron and he actually managed to turn red from embarrassment over the gurgling noises emanating from his abdomen. "Sorry, I haven't really eaten much yet today."Hermione simply shook her head as she remembered his unrelenting appetite. Harry spoke up and suggested that they take a break and have some lunch and then get back to work on their plans.Draco spoke up first, "Are you just going to call your house elf to make us a meal?"Harry sighed and shook his head. "No, Kreacher is working on getting our things moved to the new house today." He quickly silenced Hermione's protests with a look before he continued, "We could have someone head out and pick us up something to eat."Catherine quickly volunteered her and Ron to go grab the food, "That shouldn't be a problem, now that the wards have accepted us."Draco then amended the suggestion, "Why don't I go out with the Weasel."Everyone in the room stared at him as though he had two heads."If we're going to be working together, it will be a simple test," he explained. "We should be able to manage something as simple as picking up food and bringing it back if we're about to go rescue Daphne's sister together."Hermione's eyes widened in shock at the sense her current boyfriend made, while Ron gulped at the thought of trying to be nice to a second Slytherin in as many days.Harry simply mumbled something about it being awfully somewhere today.A short while later the two young men returned with bags of Chinese food, and apparently there was surprisingly little confrontation between the two while they were on their simple mission. As the group of seven sat down to eat, conversation strayed away from the discomfort of the pressing matters at hand, even if only for a short while.Ron looked at Harry, "So, you have Kreacher moving your things for you. Where are you moving?"Susan, Daphne and Hermione all silently waited for Harry to respond, each of them feeling it was Harry's story to tell, or not to tell.Harry began to answer Ron tentatively. "This has always been Sirius' place, the Black Family home. The Potter Manor was destroyed during the first war." Ron nodded in response to Harry's words and Harry continued. "I have acquired an old English manor to make a new home. It has recently been warded for me by the goblins. Its location will remain unknown to everyone outside of the people who were in this house before you arrived."Ron at first seemed hurt that Harry wouldn't tell him where his house was and then he looked at the three women and then back at Harry. "That's brilliant Harry, you've obviously learned something from the past two wars."Catherine smiled at Ron and then at Harry. "A place you can call your own, and hopefully start making your own memories in, that should be nice. So, you're all moving there, together?""We'll be moving there tomorrow," commented Daphne, "we just need to finish getting a few things together, and hope that we haven't overworked dear Kreacher."Ron nearly spit out the soda he was drinking. He quickly apologised as he stared at Daphne, "That's a term I've never heard used in reference to that old house elf."Hermione sighed as she looked at Ron, "Really, Ronald, you should remember how he started treating Harry better last fall. And ever since he learned that we destroyed that locket, he has been nothing but charming towards Harry, and especially towards Daphne for some reason."Ronald nodded at Hermione's words, "So you're all going to live in a big old mansion together once this is all over. Sounds cozy."Draco eyed Ron carefully, not sure what he was implying. But before Draco could comment, Harry spoke up. "Not necessarily, I was thinking of traveling. And taking any of you with me who wanted to come."Catherine turned and faced him, her interest definitely piqued by his words. "Would that include Red and I? And where a bouts are you planning to travel? To see the rest of the magical world?"Draco again shut his mouth and just shook his head, waiting to see the reaction to what he expected Harry to say.Harry snorted at her question. "I have seen more of the magical world than I care to, and I haven't even left Britain. No, I plan to tour the muggle world, and yes, you and Ron would be welcome, if you can learn how to blend in with a non magical society. And get along with my friends and family. As far as what I had planned," he paused and looked at his two girlfriends, "I was considering taking a cruise to the Caribbean, I understand the Blacks may have some property there."Soon lunch was finished and the group was back to discussing what they could do with the information that they had. Daphne, however excused herself from their discussion, explaining that she had things to work on to prepare for the move. Hermione was surprised by this, considering it was her sister that had been kidnapped and she went to go find where Daphne had gone. It didn't take her long to find Daphne in the library going through some books."What are you doing Daphne?" demanded Hermione. "Why aren't you downstairs with everyone else?"Daphne was startled by Hermione's questioning and dropped a book before she placed it into a box. "Obviously I am preparing the Black Library to be moved to the new estate.""But it's your sister they are working on trying to save!" exclaimed Hermione.Daphne was becoming more irritated with Hermione by the second. "I am well aware of exactly what is going on downstairs, and Harry is a much better strategist than I am. I trust Harry to save Astoria. I trust Draco to help him. And right now I trust Weasley and Yaxley to give them information to help.""So you just come up here and idle away!" Hermione was still almost screaming at Daphne."As the soon to be Lady Black," stated Daphne, with obvious irritation in her voice, "I actually have certain responsibilities." Daphne went to get some more books for the box while Hermione picked up the one that had dropped on the floor.Hermione read the title of the book and she dropped the book again. Glaring at Daphne she commented, "Dark Arts for the Lady of the House?"Daphne simply bent over picked up the book, wiped off the cover and checked to make sure it hadn't been damaged by being repeatedly dropped. "Thank you Hermione, I wouldn't want to leave this book behind. I haven't finished reading it yet."Hermione put a hand to her mouth as she gasped. "Does Harry know you're involved in the Dark Arts?"Daphne carefully placed the apparently offensive book into the box and glared at Hermione. "As the very soon to be Lady Black, I am responsible for the entire Black library. The contents of this book is between Lord Black and myself. It is, Miss Granger, none of your business." She paused for a moment as she picked the book back up to inspect it one more time, "I am however slightly surprised that there wasn't at least some safety precautions placed on the book that would have been triggered by you touching it." She put the book back down and calmly spoke to Hermione. "Let me see your hands, oh good, no signs of a dark curse on your finger tips, at least not yet. Maybe it's because all you did was pick up the book and you didn't try to open it and read it." Daphne narrowed her eyes at Hermione. "You really do need to be more careful around here, Hermione."A little while later the group had all gathered around after they had finished their discussions. They had agreed to share the list of businesses with Bagley and the Task Force once they had made a preliminary investigation into some of the companies. The plan was to meet with Bagley in the morning, but Draco and Harry wanted to do a few more investigations of their own this afternoon.Harry and Draco prepared to leave, and the others asked them where they were heading."We have something we need to look into, it may lead to further clues," commented Draco, "it may be nothing."Hermione was not happy with his answer. "Where exactly are you heading?"Draco looked to Harry before replying to Hermione, "Harry had a theory we discussed earlier. The Shadow Lord has been attacking those he feels has betrayed him, or Riddle. He attacked the Weasleys when he attacked their shop. He attacked you earlier this summer. By going after Astoria, he attacked Harry indirectly through Daphne. He tried to attack Harry through manipulations of Susan, but Harry already put a stop to that with his betrothal to Susan. That leaves more attacks against me.""But you're safe here and he already failed in attacking this place and he already attacked Harry and you twice already," protested Hermione."And both of his attacks against failed," acknowledged Harry. "So he still must be looking for a way to get at Draco."Catherine spoke up, "I know how my father works. He is a spiteful man, and I would have to agree with Harry and Draco. They're probably right. He must be planning something."Hermione looked back and forth between the two young men. "Fine, the Shadow Lord, Yaxley, he is planning something, I get it. Where are you going? Are you two about to walk into a trap when you should be helping to find Astoria?"Harry tried to reassure her, "We're not walking into a trap, we're just going to investigate some place."Draco leaned forward and whispered into Hermione's ear. Hermione paled at what he said, then she stepped back in shock and she shouted at him, "You're looking for your mother? And you think that the Shadow Lord may have done something to her?"Ron looked at Catherine and then at Hermione. "Are sure you two should go alone?""Either we find my mother or we find an empty apartment," replied Draco, "I don't see what the big issue is.""Let us know if you find anything different from that," added Hermione, obviously uneasy with their plan.~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Harry and Draco were walking down a road near the entrance to the Ministry of Magic. It was clearly a fairly opulent section of muggle London. Draco pointed out the building that they were looking for, and Harry paused as he looked at it."So, this is where he would stay?""Odd, isn't it? For someone who professed to hate muggles so much he had no problems running off to this apartment he had here," commented Draco. "It did have the benefit of being close to the ministry, but that makes no sense when one can floo right into the atrium.""But you said that your father kept the knowledge of this apartment secret," said Harry as they approached the entrance."He thought he did," said Draco as he led the way up to the third floor where the luxury apartment was located. "Mother discovered it when I was a second year student, and I know she stayed here during his trial. My biggest concern is that I haven't heard from her in a while."The two ascended the last flight of stairs in silence. As they reached the top landing, Draco was frustrated to find that the door had been forced open. When they stepped in side cautiously it became clear that the apartment had been ransacked and that there was no one present. Harry cast a few quick spells and was reassured that there was no one hiding within the apartment. Draco slumped against a wall in his frustration.Harry looked at his distraught friend with concern. "I'm sure she's fine, Draco. Whoever did this was looking for her, or for information. They wouldn't have trashed the place if they had found her. This isn't even spell damage."Draco looked around the room again. "Don't touch anything," he quickly stated. "Perhaps someone from your task force can help investigate this," he suggested.Suddenly they heard a popping sound of apparition and they both had their wands out and turned to face the sound. They came face to face with Catherine Yaxley who had her hands up and her wand loosely held pointing straight at the ceiling. "Hey, don't hex me, please," she pleaded."How the hell did you find us?" demanded Draco."Simple tracking charm," she smiled. Then she looked around the room, "What the bloody hell happened here?""Maybe you could tell us, Yaxley," snapped Draco.Harry still had his wand trained on her. "It is awful suspicious that you happened to just apparate here."Catherine sighed. "Take my wand for now if you don't trust me, which clearly you don't." She then dropped her wand onto the floor. "Fell any better yet? Hermione was upset that you two just up and left, I told her I placed a tracking charm on you as you left, she saw me do it. You can ask her if you want. That's how I got here. If you want to send a patronus message to them and ask them to come here Ron and Hermione can confirm what I said." Catherine then sat on the floor. "I'll wait."Harry turned to Draco who was now standing and also had his wand pointing at her. "But what did you hope to prove by coming here?""I came here to reassure Hermione," she explained again. "Obviously you two found something you didn't expect."Harry looked around the apartment one more time and then back at Catherine, "You could say that.""I just did," she said with a mischievous smile. "Now we could start here all day like this or we could try and figure out who did this and where they went," she added."What are you talking about?" asked Draco."Whoever did this was probably magical," she stated.Harry turned to face her directly, "And just how do you know that?""That door was magically locked," she said simply, "whoever broke in here was clearly not a muggle. They were looking for information, and Malfoy here may or may not know what they were looking for." She turned to face Draco, "Do you have any idea what the Shadow Lord wanted here?""Other than looking for my mother," replied Draco with a sneer, "no I don't. Unless your father assumed that my father was hiding something here, and if he was, I honestly have no idea what it might have been."Catherine smiled slightly, "Probably my father just sent some goons to look for your mother, and when they didn't find her they just trashed the place out of spite.""But what was this about apparition tracking?" asked Harry, not letting that comment go unanswered."It's a skill that few Aurors know, one that I know any Death Eaters learned, one I picked up out of necessity from watching too many things happening around me," she said simply and without emotion."Can you teach us?" asked Harry."Perhaps, but not in a short period of time," she said as she began to look around the room. "Depending on when this happened I may be able to pick up the trail. This may be the lead to help us find where Astoria was taken."Harry and Draco looked at each other. "I'm still not sure I trust her," stated Draco.Suddenly there was the sound of two more people apparating to the apartment. Catherine immediately called out to Harry and Draco, "Don't curse them, it's probably Ron and Hermione."Draco and Harry now had their wands pointed ay the two people who Catherine had just announced might be apparating in."I told you it would be them," she began to explain. "I figured you wouldn't trust me, so for backup I had Hermione place a tracking charm on me and told her and Ron to apparate here if she hadn't heard back from either me or the two of you within five minutes."Hermione listened to Catherine's explanation as she looked at a stunned Draco and Harry who were now placing their wands back in their wand holsters. "I was right not to wait the full five minutes with you two hot heads," stated Hermione.Ron laughed at the two of them. "If I can learn to trust a snake, I figured that you two could."Hermione looked around the room, "What happened here?"Harry put his head in his hand. "If we're going to have to re-explain this every five minutes, we'll be here all night. DOn't tell me Daphne and Susan will be apparating here in another 5 minutes."Hermione shook her head, "No, not at all. If they don't hear from one of us within five minutes, they're going to contact Bagley at the DMLE."Harry rolled his eyes. "Will someone please tell the two of them we are all fine before we have the Task Force setting up a rescue mission of their own!"Hermione huffed and then sent of a patronus message to Daphne and Susan to reassure them everyone was fine.Catherine looked at Harry and Draco, "Mind if I pick up my wand now?"Draco smirked, "Might was well."Catherine smirked back and then curtsied as she grabbed her wand. She then set about casting a few diagnostic spells and after a couple of minutes she turned to face the other four. "As it turns out this happened just a couple of days ago. I may be able to track the last apparition out of here. It's a good thing none of you left here to tell Susan or Daphne in person by apparating or it would have covered up the remaining evidence of the last apparition spell."Hermione's jaw dropped. "No one can track an apparition spell."Ron scoffed, "Actually, she has done it before, so don't say no one can do something just because you're not familiar with it."Hermione glared slightly at Ron.Draco spoke up next, "Actually, Hermione, it has been documented that some wizards and witches can do that, track apparition. While it isn't a skill that is taught in any school, it is doable."Catherine shook her head. "Enough of the bickering, I need to track the spell now or I'll lose any chance of following it.""How do we know where you're going though?" asked Hermione.Catherine sighed, "You won't. I can apparate back here and side along apparate people back to where I tracked them to, and then we can all figure out what to do next.""How do we know you're not leading us into a trap?" questioned Hermione.Catherine just shook her head. "Obviously, you don't. Right now you're just going to have to trust me.""You could make her take an oath," offered Ron."We could," agreed Harry, "but we're going to trust you and Catherine right now. Or at least I am willing to do that." He turned to Catherine. "Go ahead, do it. Come right back and let us know what you find."Catherine apparated away and Hermione turned on Harry. "Have you gone round the twist, Harry? We could all be in danger now!""We could be, or we could just trust Ron here, and see what Catherine tells us when she returns," commented Harry, wondering why Hermione was getting so worked up over this.A moment later there was a pop as Catherine reappeared. "I think I know where Astoria is," she said with a sigh.Hermione was about to speak up when Draco cut her off. "What did you find out? Where did you track these people to who did this?"Catherine ignored Hermione's frustrated looks and replied to Draco and gave Harry a hopeful look. "The area is just around the corner from a warehouse owned by one of my father's companies. There are wards set up around the building, so it's a pretty good bet there is something going on inside there.""It still could all be a trap," interjected Hermione."Of course it could be a trap," commented Harry, "I've walked into plenty of them already to know that this looks like one."Ron shook his head, "I've followed you into to all of them, Harry, but I don't think this is a trap. I think this might be the real thing.""Why is that, Weasel?" asked a surprised Draco."Who ever did this, was not counting on anyone tracking their apparating back to this warehouse," explained Ron. "They think they're safe, for now. Oh, I'm sure the Shadow Lord, Yaxley, expects Harry to figure something out, and he's probably keeping Astoria safe to bargain with her, but he wouldn't expect Harry to track her down this quickly. And he sure wouldn't expect anyone from the ministry to track him down at all.""You're pretty smart, Red," added Catherine with a smile. "I knew there's a reason I like hanging around with you since I stumbled upon you yesterday." She leaned into Ron and gave him a big and a kiss, making everyone else feel more than a little uncomfortable."We still need a plan," stated Hermione interrupting their moment."We need to get a message to Bagley and his team," stated Harry. "And Catherine needs to get us to this warehouse.""But how do we get Astoria out safely?" wondered Ron.Harry grinned broadly, "Hopefully Yaxley hasn't considered everything when he placed his wards. Once we get there, I have a thought of how we might get Astoria out before we do anything else." He then turned to Catherine. "So, who are you going to bring first? I presume you can only side along apparate with one person.""I can take two," she stated confidently. "Why don't I take you and Ron and then I'll come back for Hermione and Draco?" She then eyed Hermione as she added, "Unless someone has a better idea."Hermione looked to Draco who nodded that he thought that should work fine. A few minutes later and the five of them were all standing outside of the warehouse."So, what's your brilliant plan?" wondered Catherine."Kreacher!" called out Harry. Within seconds, the elderly house elf appeared silently in front of Harry."Master Harry called old Kreacher," he croaked. "What does Master Harry need?"Harry smiled at the house elf. "Lady Daphne's sister was taken by some people. We think she may be in this building," he added as he pointed to the warehouse. "We know there are wards that would make it hard for us to get inside, but are there wards that would keep a house elf away? Could you get inside, unbeknownst to anyone inside, and let us know if Astoria Greengrass is there?""I should be able to that for you, Master Harry sir," said the old elf as he disappeared silently."Maybe someone should let the DMLE know what is going on," commented Hermione. "And Susan, and Daphne," she added sternly.Harry rolled his eyes, as he was used to charging into situations that he came upon and he was equally used to Hermione being his voice of reason. "You are probably right, but depending on what Kreacher finds, I'm not sure how long we want to delay our rescue of Astoria if she is here." Harry then sent off a patronus message to Auror Captain Bagley, informing him to bring the task force to his current location outside of a warehouse in muggle London, and reminding him to do it quietly. Before relaying a message to Susan and Daphne he commented that they ought to be sure that Astoria really was here.Kreacher then appeared a moment after that with a silent pop. "Master Harry, Mistress Daphne's sister is present in the building and I's can manage to get through all of the wards completely undetected. I should also be able to bring her to you in a minute, as there a just a couple of wards I need to remove first.""A house elf can do all of that?" asked an incredulous Hermione.Kreacher seemed to glare at her. "Kreacher cannot remove all of the wards, I can only remove the wards directly around her." With that the elf disappeared again.Harry sent off another patronus to Susan and Daphne just as several wizards arrived silently. Auror Captain Bagley quickly surveyed the area and turned to Harry. "I'm not sure I want to know how you found her," he stated as he took in who everyone who was in the group, "but if you're sure she's in there, and this is a muggle owned building, we may need an obliviator squad on hand by the time we're done.""I doubt you'll find any muggles around here," commented Catherine, "or haven't you noticed the muggle repelling wards yet?"Bagley turned and stared at her. "You're a Yaxley, aren't you," he stated as he quickly scanned the area, "and an observant one."She rolled her eyes at him.Bagley ignored her look and turned back to Harry. "So, have you determined what else these wards are that are here? What will happen if we just barge in to get the girl?""Getting the girl isn't your problem," replied Harry, "my house elf should be about finished with that any minute."Then the group heard sound of two more people apparating in to the vicinity. Everyone spun around with wands drawn to see Susan and Daphne come running up to Harry."Where is she," asked Daphne, "where's my sister? Is she safe, have you found her yet?"Harry pulled into a hug as he spoke soothingly, "It's going to be okay. She's in the warehouse, and Kreacher is bypassing the wards as they are not designed to keep out house elves. Then he will free her from where she is being held and bring her out safely. Then we're going to go in and get this Shadow Lord."Harry stepped back away from Daphne, and smiled at Susan who had been listening to what Harry had to say.Susan stepped up to him and suddenly reached out and slapped him in the face, surprising even Daphne with her sudden action."Stop going full Gryffindor on us," she exclaimed. "You're not an Auror! Okay, we get it, you defeated the bad guy once. All right, more than once. And how many times did you put yourself and others in danger by going into full Gryffindor mode, huh?"Daphne calmly added, "She's got a point, Harry. And if she hadn't slapped you to get your attention, I was about to do something else."Ron shook his head, "That is something I am so glad I didn't see."Catherine whined, "I don't know, it might have been fun, or exciting, or kinky. You never can tell with Slytherins. Or is it with a Greengrass?"Daphne's glare silenced her.Harry was about to protest when Bagley interrupted their little display. "Harry, I've seen you handle some of the thugs that the Shadow Lord has sent your way, and I'm sure you can handle yourself when we make our move. What I'm not sure about is how you'll handle these two if you do come along."Susan and Daphne stood facing Harry with their arms folded across their chests. Hermione bit her lip watching the entire scene unfold in front of her, recalling all too vividly the times she tried in school to get Harry not to rush headlong into things.The silence was broken by the sound of Kreacher appearing in front of Harry. The fact that he was by himself did not go unnoticed by anyone in the group. Daphne was holding back tears waiting for an explanation as Susan put an arm around her to comfort her. Harry's confused look at his elf was enough to keep everyone quiet as they all waited for the odd house elf to speak."Mistress Daphne's sister is safe," announced the elf.Daphne stopped herself from screaming by covering her mouth with her hand. Susan hugged her as the others seemed to cheer with delight.Harry leaned down to approach Kreacher face to face. "If Astoria is safe, then where is she?" he asked."You were all moving to the new house," explained Kreacher, "and the bad men do not know of the new house, so Kreacher take Mistress Daphne's sister to new house. To safe house."Daphne leaned over and gave Kreacher a hug.Harry then asked Kreacher to bring Susan and Daphne to the house to be with Astoria. Kreacher nodded in agreement. As he was about to apparate away with his two betrothed, Daphne quickly reached out and grabbed Harry to bring him along with them. Susan noticed Daphne's movement and quickly let go of Kreacher before they apparated as she wasn't sure how many the old elf could carry along with him on the magical travel.Susan turned to face the others. "I figured Daphne would probably kill him, or worse, if he tried to join the raid on the Shadow Lord."Ron shuddered, "I don't even want to guess what might be worse than killing him."Auror Captain Bagley spoke to one of his men and turned back to the group of five young wizards and witches. "We are about to begin our assault on this building by bringing down the wards. My advice to the group of you is to stay away as I can't predict what will happen once the wards come down, but my group will be going in after the Shadow Lord and whoever else may be in there."Draco spoke up first. "That's all right with us, to stay out of your way that is. Send a message to Lord Potter-Black once you are done here. I'm sure he'd like an update."Bagley nodded and then turned to the rest of his team. The curse breaker was already working on a plan to bring down the wards surrounding the warehouse.Draco then spoke to Susan. "Do you have a port key to the new manor?"Susan nodded and pulled it out of her shoulder bag. "Everyone hold on," she commanded. Catherine, Ron, Hermione and Draco all grabbed a hold of the short piece of rope and then Susan spoke the phrase that activated the port key.They found themselves standing on the patio outside of the main entrance to an old English Manor. Ron and Catherine turned around to take in the beauty of the grounds and the building where they landed."Where are we?" asked a confused Ron."Harry's new home," answered Susan, "and for now that's all you're being told. The wards placed by the goblins have made it unplottable, although a few of us do know the location of where we are."Ron just nodded, "Makes sense, considering everything Harry and his family have been through."Hermione smiled slightly at Ron, impressed that he was being so understanding at this point. Ron noted that Draco and Hermione seemed familiar with the building. "Oi, have you two already been here?"Draco spoke up for the two of them. "We looked at the place with Harry when he was considering buying it. In fact, we already have rooms in the manor, and Kreacher has already moved all of our things here from Grimmauld place, if what he stated earlier was correct."Catherine took Ron by the hand. "It's been a long day, maybe we should just be going then."Harry stepped out from the doors onto the patio. "Nonsense," he greeted cheerfully. "You're all welcome to stay. Daphne is getting Astoria situated. It appears that they didn't harm her while they held her captive. They were using her as bait to get me to come find her. The idea of using a house elf to get passed their wards never occurred to the Shadow Lord.""I'm not surprised," stated Catherine. "Most pure-bloods look down on them so much that they would never give them a second thought, my father included obviously."Harry nodded in her direction. "Honestly, I am quite surprised how easy it was to rescue Astoria once we found her. However, it is getting late in the day. We will be arranging for dinner shortly. Everyone else has their own rooms. Kreacher will show you to the guest area, or if you would like, you may use the guest house." Harry pointed to the small carriage house near the driveway.Ron and Catherine looked at each other and then back to Harry. "Staying in the manor house with everyone should be fine," replied Ron, with a slight gulp and an increasing blush coming to his face.Hermione then spoke up. "What about Astoria and Daphne's parents?"Harry fought back a frown, recalling how his last encounter with Daphne's father had not gone so well. "We will notify them in the morning that Astoria is here after she has fully rested. Neither Daphne nor I want to deal with that confrontation tonight."With that response Harry turned and walked back into the manor.~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Later that evening, after everyone had finished dinner, Hermione and Draco were sitting on the patio together, looking out over the estate.Hermione turned to Draco, "What's wrong? I can tell something is bothering you."Draco stiffened at first and then he stood up and he began to pace. "Nothing is wrong. I'm quite pleased for Harry and Daphne that Astoria has been rescued."Hermione scoffed. "You're lying to me and you know it. I've been able to read you like a book since second year, Malfoy."Her use of his last name caught his attention. He stopped pacing and he turned to face her. He hadn't heard her get out of her chair and he was surprised to find her standing right next to him. Hermione wrapped her arms around him. "Whatever is bothering you, please, share it with me."Draco relaxed into her embrace, something he found increasingly easy to do lately. "Very well," he began in the proper tone of well educated pure-blood, "I am still concerned about my mother. I expected to find her at the apartment, or at least to find information that led to my knowing where she might be. What we did find was a trail that led us to find Astoria, but I still have no idea what happened to my mother."Hermione reached up and cupped one side of Draco's face tenderly. "Oh dear, in our rush to save Astoria, we all overlooked your concern for your mother."Draco turned away from her touch.Hermione looked at him and hugged him once more before she reverted to her usual logical approach to all problems. "Draco, if she wasn't at the apartment when the Shadow Lord, Yaxley, sent his men; and she's not at your family's estate, then where else could she be?"Draco did not turn back to face her. "His men could have taken her with them. She could be held somewhere else. You saw the list of companies that Catherine said her father owned.""And hopefully soon we'll hear something from Captain Bagley about what happened at the warehouse," replied Hermione. "But that doesn't even make sense with what we saw at the apartment. Whomever was there went through everything and made a mess, but there was no signs of a struggle, no signs of a duel. Your mother would have at least tried to defend herself. She must have already been gone before anyone else arrived. And if Yaxley's men got through your father's wards to get into the apartment, then your mum would have had plenty of warning to leave."Draco relaxed some more and turned back to face Hermione. "There are times I truly appreciate how smart you are, you do know that don't you," he said as he leaned his head down on her shoulder.Hermione just pulled him in to hug him more to comfort him. After a minute she asked him again, "So, where else can she be?"Draco stood up slowly and released her. He was considering the options. "There are no family members here in England she would ever go see, so I doubt there is anyone here in England." He stood there silent and pensive for a minute. "Perhaps she went to the continent. She may have some old friends in France. Father may have had some relatives there, but they never spoke of them."Hermione smiled at him, "See, there is a possible explanation. You may be able to get a message to her somehow."~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~A patronus in the image of a badger arrived at the manor and stood in front of Harry as he was speaking with Draco and Ron. Harry recognised it as coming from Auror Captain Bagley. "We have completely overrun the warehouse and we managed to only capture two of the Shadow Lord's goons. Apparently they had some secret exit through a hidden basement that allowed them to get away and not use apparition or port keys as we had wards in place to stop that. The Shadow Lord is on the run, and he knows that Astoria was rescued, but his men have no idea how she managed to get free. We'll update you later, when we have more information."Harry cursed under his breath at the news that the Shadow Lord had escaped. Draco turned to face him, "There is nothing you could have done, even if you had been there."Harry shrugged, then he looked at Draco and Ron and sighed. "Be that as it may, someone still has to tell Daphne and Astoria that he is still on the loose."Ron paled at the thought, "And Catherine."~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~The next morning, the group sent a message to Daphne's parents. They informed them that Astoria had been rescued and that she was recovering at Harry's new manor house. Lord and Lady Greengrass insisted on coming to see her immediately and that she should be returning home with them.Daphne explained that Astoria would be given the choice of where she would be allowed to recover before returning to school, and then she opened the floo connection to her parents. As her parents stepped through the floo and into the library they were met by Daphne and Harry."How is my daughter?" demanded Lord Greengrass."She is resting comfortably," assured Harry. "Once we had a lead on a possible whereabouts of the Shadow Lord we were able to track him to a location in muggle London. With the assistance of my house elf, we managed to remove her from the location where she was being held before he realised that she was gone. The Aurors then raided the location, but sadly, they were not able to capture the Shadow Lord.""Can we see her now, please?" asked Lady Greengrass, with a much gentler tone."Daphne would be happy to show you to her room," replied Harry and then Daphne led the way to the room where Astoria was resting.Once they arrived at the room, Astoria's parents nearly ran to her side. "Mum, papa, it is good to see you," she said through tear filled eyes.Her mother just hugged her, grateful to see that her baby was safe and healthy. Her father then pronounced, "I am glad you are well, Astoria, we can now see to your being moved back to our home, where you can finish your recovery before returning to school."Astoria looked up at her father and gently pushed her mother away. "But why? Why do I have to leave here? Daphne is looking after me, and Harry has arranged for a healer to be here checking on me day and night. I'm actually feeling quite fine, although the healer must have been through the same training as Madam Pomfrey as she insists I have 3 more days of bed rest before I get up and around."Her father was about to explain just why she should return home with them, until her mother interrupted him, "I see no reason why she can't stay here. Daphne can watch over her, and we can visit her now." She then turned back to her daughter, "We would ask that you visit and spend one night at home before returning to school."Astoria hugged her mother, "Sure, thanks mum."Lord Greengrass was beside himself with anger at the situation. He was now overruled by both his daughter and his wife. Seeing that there was nothing more he could do about the situation, he walked up to the edge of the bed and leaned over and gave his daughter a hug, "Get well soon, princess, return home soon. If there is anything you need, let you mother or I know.""Sure thing," replied Astoria with a smile.Feeling like he needed to control the situation in some way, he then announced "It is time for us return home, you can come check on Astoria tomorrow."Lady Greengrass glared slightly at her husband before hugging her daughter one last time, she then kissed Astoria on her forehead and then stood up to leave.Daphne then saw her parents to the floo as they left, internally seething at the way her father had treated both her sister and her mother over Astoria's request to stay here for her recovery.After her parents had left, Harry came up and gave Daphne a hug. "I gather that didn't go as well as expected.""You could say that," she added with a kiss to his cheek."We do need to head to a meeting with my solicitor today," added Harry, "Andromeda has some important things to review with us.Harry and Susan and Daphne arrived at the meeting with Andromeda Tonks a short time later. Harry was reviewing more of his holdings and the plans he had for their upcoming travel. He also needed to confirm with her about some of the issues for his house rules for being Lord Potter and Lord Black. Before she began to answer the questions, she pointed out that due to some of the rules, it might be best to have some of the conversations separately. Initially, Harry was confused.Daphne tried to explain it to him more clearly, "If I am to become Lady Black, then I should not be present when you are discussing business related to House Potter. And when you are discussing business related to House Black, then Susan, as Lady Potter, no offence here Susan, also should not be present for those discussions."Andromeda nodded in agreement. "That is essentially what I was trying to explain, Harry."Harry shook his head in frustration. "This makes no sense. So to deal with business related to my two houses, it will have to take twice as long?""Only if the ladies are present, milord," explained Daphne.Harry looked to both Susan and Daphne. Susan responded first, "We understand you didn't write any of these rules, it's not your fault and we're not about to blame you for it."Harry felt relieved."Now then," began Andromeda, "it seems there is some business to be dealt with for each of the houses, so why don't we begin with that now."The meetings with Andy took over an hour before everything that Harry needed to get done was finally wrapped up. By the time they were done, Daphne was grinning smugly, Susan was smiling but relieved to be out of the meetings and Harry was shaking his head.As they were about to leave, Andromeda handed an envelope to Harry. "If you could give this to my nephew, it's very important that he reads it as soon as possible."Harry simply raised an eyebrow as he noted that the only name written on the envelope was Lord Malfoy.Upon arriving back at the new Potter-Black Manor, Harry quickly handed the letter to Draco. "Your Aunt Andy wanted me to give this to you."Draco looked puzzled, as he had next to no contact with his aunt at all. He took the envelope and raised an eyebrow at the simple address on the envelope. He then carefully opened the letter and began to read. Hermione watched his stern features soften and then form a smile. She looked at him and then she realised who the letter must have been from: his mother.Hermione had learned to be patient and she waited for Draco to explain things. He continued to read the letter and then he finally turned to her and Harry as he began to recount the details of the letter."It seems that mother has been safely hiding in France," he stated as he looked over the details again quickly. "She was able to contact some distant relatives and apparently was able to floo to a safe house away from the apartment just before Yaxley's men showed up. She is safe there, and is able to return to England when things are safe here."Hermione bit her lip at the news, wondering what safe in England really meant.Harry stood next to Draco and offered his hand. "This is good news. Family is important, and if you want to, you can invite your mother to come stay here. I know she's important to you Draco."Draco was surprised by the invitation. "I really wouldn't want to be a burden."Harry laughed at his friend's concern. "We have the carriage house. She could stay there, if that would make her and you feel more comfortable. It is here and safe but out of the way but also very nearby.""She has a floo address," commented Draco. "I can at least contact her and see what she thinks about the idea.""Even if it is just to visit," offered Harry.Draco managed to contact his mother later that day through an international floo network. Narcissa had agreed to at least come and visit for a couple of days as the idea of the separate house sounded like less of an intrusion on everyone else. Arrangements were made for her to travel via international floo to London and then apparate with Draco to the new manor house.Harry had Kreacher prepare an elaborate meal to welcome Draco's mother.As the dinner hour approached, the group of young friends awaited for Draco to arrive with his mother. Soon they arrived via the tell-tale pop of apparation into the garden behind the manor house. Narcissa took a quick glance around the estate and then back at the manor house itself."Well, Draco, it seems as if Potter has managed to do all right for himself after all," she stated as he was about to lead her into the house.Draco silently hoped that her attitude would stay polite throughout the evening, and he reminded himself that she was well versed in pure-blood politics and etiquette.Escorting his mother into the large room, Draco then made introductions. "Lord Potter-Black, I would like to thank you once again for so graciously welcoming my mother into your home."Harry stepped forward and made the proper pure-blood welcome of taking her hand and kissing it. "You are always welcome, Lady Malfoy. I feel I owe a debt of gratitude to you for the kindness you showed me in the forest. And it also seems that your son has finally been able to mature into the young Lord he was meant to be."Narcissa smiled slightly at the greeting as she withdrew her hand. "You are most welcome, Lord Potter-Black. It seems that you have been looking out for my son's welfare even more since the events of that same evening, and for that I thank you."The tension in the air over the formalities was becoming quite thick, even Narcissa could feel it. "It seems the formalities of these introductions is too much for some of your friends," she commented to Draco, "as not everyone is quite used to all of our customs."Harry wasn't sure if the comment was meant as a barb against anyone in particular, but he assumed it may have been directed at both Ron and Hermione.Draco quietly whispered to his mother, "Please, be nice, these are my friends."Narcissa gave Draco a slight kiss on the cheek, "I am being nice, Draco dear." Then she turned to face the small gathering of people. "Let's see, you must be Daphne Greengrass, it has been a while, my dear," she stated as she greeted Daphne with a kiss to her cheek. "And Susan Bones, you know, you do have your mother's eyes, and your Aunt's hair. It is a shame about your family. I always liked them."Draco then added, "Daphne's sister, Astoria is recovering from an unpleasant ordeal, and while she is here, she will not be able to join us for tonight's gathering."Narcissa frowned slightly, "And as I recall she was such a lovely girl, one that your father and I long had our eyes on for you, Draco." Draco flinched slightly at his mother's comments, hoping that they wouldn't make everyone else feel too uncomfortable.Narcissa then turned to the next couple. "Oh, a Weasley, Ronald I presume," she added. "It seems circumstances are quite different since the last time we met." Then she turned and faced Catherine. "My, young Catherine Yaxley, you have grown. Yes, Draco explained to me already how you ended up here, and how you have distanced yourself from your father."Draco then brought his mother face to face with Hermione. "Ah, Miss Granger, it has been a while. You do seem to be doing much better since the last time I saw you. It seems that your stay at my husband's estate was, shall we say, less than pleasant for one of your background.""It's a pleasure to meet you again, Lady Malfoy," said Hermione, as she tried to suppress her feelings about being reminded about the events of her stay at Malfoy Manor and especially the treatment by Narcissa's sister.Sensing the growing awkwardness of the moment, Harry interrupted by announcing that dinner would be ready shortly and that perhaps they should all move to the ding room. They all took their seats at the table, with Harry at one end with Daphne on his right and Susan on his left. Next to Susan sat Ron then Catherine. On the opposite side of the table sat Hermione next to Daphne, and then Draco, with Narcissa at the far end across from Harry.Soon dinner was served and conversation began. Narcissa began to speak to Draco about his summer which eventually led to a conversation about his relationship with Hermione. By the time this part of the conversation was beginning the meal was essentially over and the conversation was overheard by everyone at the table."But seriously Draco," continued his mother, "you have your future to think about. She may be smart, and she may be pretty, and for all I know she may be good in bed, but she does nothing for your status. Now Harry, here, he has two women, both of whom have families who have good status. Now granted, the name Potter-Black will take him far to begin with.""Mother," protested Draco, "I am not interested in family name or status."Narcissa stared at Draco as if she had been slapped. "You need to, son. After what your father did to the name Malfoy over the years, the name has been tarnished. You have not been able to inherit the good name of Black. At least you were wise enough to start to associate yourself with those of upstanding names now.""I did not start to associate myself with Harry because of his name, mother," complained Draco.Narcissa leaned in closer to her son, "Of course you didn't, at least keep telling that publicly, you've learned well."Draco was starting to become increasingly angry with his mother at this time. "Mother, I care about Hermione. I care about my friends. All of them. All of these people in this room have become important to me. Well, maybe not Weasley," he added with a slight laugh.Narcissa sat back. She looked at her son and then she leaned forward slightly to take a closer look at Hermione. She turned back to Draco, "She really means that much to you?""Yes, mother, she does," he stated firmly."Well," she said with a final sigh, suggesting that she was giving up. "I suppose that she might be adequate as a mistress, you know. She does have quite the smarts. Top marks in her classes all those years, you said. And she is quite the looker. So, I suppose if we get you the right pure-blood wife, you could keep her around as your mistress. Yes, that should be fine. It would still be a scandal, but it would be fine."Everyone in the room was staring at her.Narcissa took in the stares and finally replied. "What? The Malfoys and the Blacks are all used to a good juicy scandal. No problem at all with that."There was silence in the room at the end of her pronouncement."I think that I shall head to my quarters," she stated as she then called out for Kreacher to show her the way to the carriage house.After she left the room was still silent. Harry tried to break the tension as he asked, "I don't suppose any one would care for dessert?"Draco shook his head, "I'm sorry everyone that you all had to witness that. I know my family has always been big on the old ways, but that display was just uncalled for."Susan spoke up first, "It wasn't your fault Draco, you had no idea she would go on like that."Daphne agreed with her. "Some of us here have heard all of that pure-blood drivel before, and we know it means nothing." She turned to Harry, "And you know that neither Susan or I are interested in you because of your fame or your houses."Harry took her hand and nodded in understanding.Daphne turned to Hermione on her right, "Our generation of witches and wizards don't follow those beliefs, we don't care about your background, Hermione, you're our friend, and always will be."Hermione was heartened by their words but still was feeling the sting of the words of Draco's mother. Kreacher interrupted everything bringing out dessert for those who were still present in the room. Once dessert was finished, Ron and Catherine made their way up to their rooms, and Susan and Daphne left to go upstairs, leaving Harry alone with Draco and Hermione as they moved into the large lounge that overlooked the garden.Harry was hoping to comfort his best friend after the earlier events, and he wondered if he should really be there or not, feeling as if he may be intruding on what may need to be a more private encounter between Hermione and Draco.Hermione was pacing back and forth, and turned to face Draco, with tears in her eyes, "It's just no good, this just can't work."Draco looked at her, "What are you talking about?""Merlin, are you that thick? Can't you see? We just brought your mother here! You saw how she treated me, you heard how she spoke to me," said Hermione as tears started to flow more. "I'm muggle born, I will never be more than a mud-blood to her, or to anyone else in your family.""What are you getting at?" asked Draco."You and I," stated Hermione as she pointed back and forth between them, "it will never work, isn't it obvious?"Harry started to feel uncomfortable and got up to leave the room."Don't you even think of leaving," shouted Hermione, "you can say right there and witness the whole thing."Harry stood still, clearly uncomfortable with this whole situation."You're not dating my family, you're dating me," pleaded Draco."You can't just turn your back on your entire family," she argued. "Your father, I can understand. But your mother? She helped save Harry, I get that. But I will always have this scar from your aunt," she said as she pulled back her sleeve and showed her arm where the word 'mudblood' had been carved by Bellatrix. "I will always have the memories of things your family did to me.""I can't make them change," said Draco, "but you know that I have changed.""I have no right to ask you to change," she added."You never asked me to change, I chose to change," he argued back. "You would never date the Draco Malfoy you went to school with and I would never expect you to.""Have you changed, Draco, really?" she asked. "How much? Are you even friends with Harry?"Draco looked from Hermione to Harry and back again. "I have learned to tolerate Potter. I'd say that's coming a long way from the rivalry we have had since we were in school.""Tolerate him? Dammit Draco, Harry is my best friend," she said still with tears streaming down her face. "All you can say is that you tolerate him after spending the past few months sharing a flat with him. And now you move into this estate house with him? I thought you two covered each others back once when you were attacked in alley by Crabbe. And the best you can do is say you tolerate him? Or is this what it means to be a Slytherin? Is this part of being cunning and calculating? Is this some elaborate plan you have?"Draco's jaw dropped at her words. "I've been completely honest with you about everything! I haven't hidden anything from you, I have no hidden agenda. I thought I've been making that clear right from the start, and now you're the one who is throwing away what we had.""What we had? What we had could never work. The prince of Slytherin dating his trophy muggle born until he tires of her, or at least until he finds a proper pure-blood witch and then I might be satisfactory as a mistress," stated Hermione, "that's what your mother said, that's what all your friends think, or will think. You would be better off going back to Parkinson or some other pure-blood witch who would be more appropriate for a wizard of your standing, I'm sure that would make your mother much more happier than having me around."Draco went to step forward to try and comfort her."Don't touch me," she said, trying to control her voice.Draco took another step forwards, and Hermione's voice was louder, "You heard me, Malfoy, stay away from me."Draco froze where he was.Hermione turned to Harry. "Please, get him out of my sight before I do something we all will regret."Harry nodded as he quietly added, "It may be too late for that, 'Mione." Then he turned to Draco, as he took him by the elbow, "Let's go, now, before things get any worse. Let everyone calm down and we can all talk later."Draco began to protest, but Harry silenced him, "Not now. Let her calm down, we'll deal with this later."Harry then led Draco to his private study. Draco dropped down into a leather chair and held is head in his hands. "How did it all go so wrong so fast?"Harry sat on his desk as he looked at Draco. "I'm not sure, but as a friend, or as someone who you at least tolerate, I can at least say you tried to handle it well. You can't be held responsible for what your mother said."Draco looked up at Harry. "I can't change my mother. But I never expected her to lash out like that. Really, I hoped she would have been happy for me, for us."Harry shook his head. "Maybe her reaction is not because of any particular dislike for Hermione or even for muggle borns."Draco felt confused. "What do you mean?"Harry paused to collect his thoughts before he spoke again. "Maybe, this is just a theory here mind you, but maybe your mother feels guilty about everything that happened before, at Malfoy Manor. What with your aunt and what happened to Hermione and such when were brought there by the snatchers. Maybe it is her way of dealing with those feelings of guilt. Drive Hermione away so she won't have to face her."Draco stared at Harry in silence for a minute before he replied, "But that's crazy, that's not normal, that doesn't make any sense to do something like that."Harry didn't respond.Draco looked at the floor in from of him and then looked back at Harry. "Is this some of that muggle psychology stuff? My mother is used to everything being orderly. Father insisted on things being just so, it only became worse when the Dark Lord returned. We had no control over our lives. Then, this summer, living in the muggle world, working in the muggle world, I actually felt free. Do you know what I mean?"Harry stared at Draco and nodded, "Yes, I actually do, Draco.""That feeling, that feeling of freedom away from the pressures of the magical world," commented Draco, "that is something my mother has never felt. I don't think she could ever understand. Hermione understands, because she grew up in that world. That's part of what attracts me to her.""Hermione needs to hear this from you," said Harry, "after she calms down.""I've never seen her get like this," said Draco, feeling quite agitated."Neither have I," added Harry.~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Susan and Daphne were discussing what happened down stairs. Susan spoke up first about their friend, "Hermione needs our support, we really shouldn't have left her down there alone, with just Harry and Draco."Daphne nodded in agreement. "Although she and Draco did need some time to talk things out, and Harry is her closest friend, we should go back and let her know we all support her.The two young women made their way back down to the room where they knew that Hermione and Draco had gone with Harry to air their differences. They were surprised to find the room empty."This can't be good," commented Susan."You go check her room," added Daphne, "I'll look for Harry and Draco and Hermione down here."Daphne quickly found Draco and Harry in the study. "What are you two doing here and where is Hermione?"Harry tried to explain, "Hermione told Draco that she didn't want to have anything to do with him anymore and told him to get away from her. We're just giving her space like she demanded."Daphne shook her head, "This isn't good, we're looking for Hermione right now."Susan made her way upstairs and found Hermione's room was vacant, and her belongings were gone. Immediately she called for Kreacher. The house elf appeared with a quiet pop."Yes, Lady Susan, how can old Kreacher help?" asked the old house elf.Susan quickly asked the elf for help, "Is Hermione still here? It seems she left the manor. Her things are missing."The house elf disappeared and quickly reappeared just as Harry, Draco and Daphne arrived in the room. "It seems that Miss Hermione has left the manor house."AN: Going Muggle will obviously continue...darn these cliff hangers...





--------




AN: It has been a while since I last posted, that was due to writing a new story for NaNoWriMo (National Novel Writing Month). Another Harry Potter Fanfiction - this once called Harry Potter and the Virtual Magical Reality. I completed over 50,000 words in the month of November 2014 to "win" NaNoWriMo. I will eventually work on posting that story after I finish this one…so, without further adieu, the continuation of Harry Potter: Going Muggle. ~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Susan and Daphne both turned and faced Draco.He held up his hands in defence upon seeing their glares. "It's not my fault," he protested, "I tried to reason with her. Harry was there."Daphne looked to Harry, "What did Hermione say to either one of you before she left?"Harry shook his head as he tried to explain what had transpired. "Hermione was very upset about the way Draco's mum had treated her, not that I blame her either, I was about to throw her out of my house for her rudeness.""Perhaps you should have," added Susan."Not helping," interjected Daphne, and then she turned back to Harry, "go on.""So, Hermione was telling Draco just why nothing would ever work between them because of their history, because of her history with other members of his family," explained Harry.Draco collapsed into one of the chairs nearby holding his head in his hands, repeating his words from earlier. "It's not my fault, I tried to reason with her. I tried to tell her that it wasn't going to be an issue."Daphne rolled her eyes at his explanation. "You're a Malfoy. She's muggleborn. Your family's reputation does kind of precede you."Susan spoke up again, "So, where did she go? Have you even looked for her yet?""We haven't had a chance to look for her yet," complained Harry.Daphne stared at the two young men for a moment with her hands on her hips and then asked them in a stern voice, "Then what are you two waiting for?"Harry and Draco quickly got moving and apparated away. First they went to her parents house, but they had not seen her and they reported that they had not heard from her either. Then they made a quick stop by both Grimmauld Place and by the Burrow and there was still no sign of Hermione.Standing outside of Diagon Alley, the two were trying to figure out where to look next."You don't suppose she went to that school she was planning to enroll in, do you?" wondered Draco."She very well might have," said Harry, "so we'll have to check on that. I can head there, maybe you should swing by the Ministry offices, see if she is there for any reason. Maybe someone there has seen her or knows something more."Draco nodded in agreement and then they apparated away separately.A couple of hours later they made their way back to the new Potter-Black estate. When they entered the main sitting room Daphne, Susan, Ron and Catherine were all waiting on them."What news do you have for us?" asked Daphne.The long faces answered the question without Harry or Draco saying a word as they collapsed into chairs.Susan looked at Harry and shook her head with the slightest amount of sympathy. "Perhaps you should contact that university she was planning to start at this fall," she suggested.Harry rubbed the back of his neck and frowned. "I already did that, and they have no record of her having arrived there or that she ever registered for classes."Draco was staring up at the ceiling, "The ministry has no information on where she might be either. Her parents haven't heard from her. No one we know has any idea where she disappeared to."Silence engulfed the room for the next five minutes. The tense atmosphere was finally broken when they heard the soft sound of footsteps come in. Everyone turned to look and saw Astoria being accompanied by the nurse that Harry had arranged to help take care of her."It is such a beautiful day," she said, "I was hoping to spend part of it outside."Harry smiled and nodded to Daphne. Daphne stood up quickly and went to her sister's side. "I'd be delighted to accompany you and the nurse outside, we can take a look at the grounds. The weather is actually quite lovely for this time of year."Daphne led the way as the nurse assisted Astoria towards the doors as they went out to the gardens. There was a large open expanse of grass with surrounding gardens of flowers and towards the rear of the property there was an old hedge maze that they hoped to have restored at some point.The other five remained in the sitting room in relative silence. Susan finally broke that by asking Ron if he had nay thoughts where Hermione might have gone off to hide."If she isn't holed up in a library somewhere, then I have no idea where she might be," he said shaking his head.Harry had been staring at the floor when he looked up and turned to Susan and Draco. "I do have an idea that I forgot to check out earlier," he said. "It is a long shot…"Harry's words were cut off by a loud crashing sound and the shaking of the entire estate.Ron's face turned pale, "That can't be good."Catherine spoke up with a panic in her voice, "That was the sound of wards crashing!"The others in the room were on their feet and running towards the doors to the garden.Harry and Draco were the first ones outside and found that Daphne, Astoria, and her nurse had been thrown to the ground by the strength of the shock that had even rattled the estate building. Then they heard the popping sounds of several wizards or witches arriving on the property.Behind them they heard Ron cursing, "Oh bloody hell, I thought the war was over."Draco and Harry immediately begin to cast spells at the group of wizards who had arrived unannounced and clearly unwelcome. Harry tried to quickly count and he guessed there must be fifteen wizards who had apparated onto his property.Spell fire was being returned by the attackers and Ron was soon at Harry and Draco's side.Ron had soon changed his tactics to casting shield spells to try and protect everyone, including the women who were trying to return to the relative safety of the inside of the manor house. Daphne was trying to defend her sister and the nurse and was alternately putting up shields and sending out offensive spells as the three women slowly made progress to the house.Images of the final battle at Hogwarts flashed through Harry's mind as he dashed out to engage the interlopers. He was joined by Draco and Ron as they were sending out spells to attack the wizards who had arrived and started the attack on his home.The three of them were using a mix of cutting, and blasting curses in addition to shield charms while also moving to dodge the spells that were being cast at them.However, as Daphne was covering the escape of her sister and her nurse back into the manor house, Harry noticed out of the corner of his eye that Daphne was struck down by a red curse and she collapsed to the ground. Harry was enraged and quickly took out three of the attackers who were circling around him.Soon after this Draco had taken down two and Ron had managed to drop one wizard. Catherine and Susan had come out to join in the fight which made the count nine wizards against five.Astoria who had been escorted back into the manor wanted to fetch her wand and fight but the nurse refused to let her join the battle.Susan quickly sent off a patronus message to Auror Captain Bagley informing him of the breach in Harry's security at the manor and the attack taking place. As she finished sending off the spell she felt a sting on her upper arm as a cutting curse sliced across it, drawing blood.Catherine saw the spell hit her and spun around and quickly dropped the wizard that had injured her. Susan wasn't sure what spell the young woman had used but it was clear that it must have been painful.Harry took out another wizard with a blasting hex as he dove out of the way of another curse. Draco had used a cutting curse to take down another wizard. Ron send a blasting hex at another wizard but he failed to dodge a bone breaking hex which connected with his leg and he fell to the ground with a grunt of pain.The odds were now more even as there were only five wizards left facing four people defending the manor - Harry, Draco, Catherine and Susan, although Susan had also been injured.Draco and Harry worked together to quickly overpower two more of the wizards who were now starting to retreat in the yard as they were noticing their associates being decimated despite their initial advantage of both surprise and numbers.Catherine was busy protecting Susan from further attacks as her wand arm was still bleeding and the battle had taken a lot from her, particularly when she noticed the fallen body of Daphne on the ground.Astoria had finally managed to break loose from her nurse and she came back out to the gardens. She dropped one of Susan's attackers with a stunner. The other wizard who had been attacking Catherine and Susan noticed that his partner was only stunned and quickly moved to revive him. Catherine took the opportunity and dropped him with a cutting curse and followed that with an overpowered stunner to the already fallen wizard that Astoria had dropped just a moment before.As Bagley and the Aurors arrive, Draco and Harry dropped the remaining wizard with bludgeoning hexes. Catherine meanwhile healed Susan's arm and then went to check on Ronald. The Aurors started to evaluate the condition of the fallen wizards and soon discovered that most of the wizards were dead from the severity of their injuries, with he lone exception being the one that Astoria had stunned who was nearly comatose from the curse that Catherine had hit him with.Daphne, however was still unmoving on the ground.Astoria's nurse had notified Lord and Lady Greengrass of the attack as soon as they had managed to get back into the manor, and they had suddenly appeared walking out onto the lawn to check on their youngest daughter. Astoria runs to her parents and hugs her mother. Lord Greengrass sees his other daughter lying still, being checked on by Susan Bones and Catherine Yaxley.Suddenly there is thunderous explosion and a flash of light in the middle of the lawn. Everyone turned to see that standing in the middle of the yard was a cloaked man."So, Potter, your doom has finally arrived," called out the Shadow Lord. "My men have breached your defences and now I shall kill you, if they haven't destroyed you already."Harry rolled his eyes. "You have none left, Yaxley, we already took care of them."Draco stood next to Harry, "And your theatrics aren't scaring anybody."Yaxley quickly scanned the yard and noticed that there were no ongoing battles and that the there only seemed to be two people on the ground other than his own men. "You just can't get good help anymore," he mumbled to himself. Then speaking in a loud voice, he called out, "It doesn't matter, Potter, you will still fall today."Auror Captain Bagley stepped up next to Harry and Draco, "I don't think so, Yaxley. Your little reign of terror is over. You called yourself a lord, yet you never had anything to be a lord over. You're a poor excuse for a dark lord. You show up to make your big move and all your minions are already defeated. Pathetic if you ask me," he taunted."You know nothing!" screamed Yaxley as he started to cast spells.Harry put up a large protego spell while Bagley cast an incarcerous spell which quickly had him bound."Not such a bad ass are you now," quipped Draco.Ron, who had been partially healed had hobbled over right after the supposed dark lord had been defeated. "Now that seemed a little anticlimactic."Harry sighed and then turned to look at the rest of his yard, and spied Daphne lying still on the ground. Then he started to run to her side.~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Several days previousAfter meeting with Andromeda and reviewing his responsibilities as Lord Potter and Lord Black, and the roles that Susan and Daphne would have as the ladies of each house, he made a decision. He then called for Draco and Hermione to join them at Andy's office.Harry spoke to the two women in his life. "I think this may be sudden, but I also think this is important. We can do this again, publicly, and you can set it up to be done any way you want, but I would like to have a civil wedding, marriage done now, today. Andy can do that now. Draco and Hermione can be our witnesses. We can keep it secret, but it will make things legal for the houses and for financial matters."Susan and Daphne thought about it for a few minutes on their own and they each decided that they would go ahead and get married to Harry that day. Harry then presented them with the house rings, that they would wear indicating that they were Lady Potter or Lady Black once the marriage was complete.Susan then asked Harry about his plans. Harry commented that he planned to leave England as soon as he could, that he wanted to travel, perhaps live abroad, once they dealt with all of the problems that were besetting them at this time.Daphne closed her eyes tightly and sighed. "I'm not sure if I could leave England. I don't know if I could leave my sister behind."Harry rubbed Daphne's back. "If you want, she could come with us, I never want to break up a family. Family is important to me Daphne, you should know that."Draco and Hermione arrived at Andromeda's law office and were soon informed of the reasons for their required presence. The marriages were then enacted, and Harry had simply asked for them to keep things secret. Draco was initially surprised that Harry never asked for a vow or an oath, but simply stated that he would take them at their word.Harry then gave Susan and Daphne their Lady of the house rings, which they could hide at will if they so desired.~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Potter-Black Manor - immediately after the defeat of the "Shadow Lord"Daphne was lying still on the grass, the nurse by her side was trying desperately to heal her. Harry arrived at her side with tears in his eyes. "How is she?" he pleaded.The nurse shook her head, "I am afraid for her Lord Potter-Black, there seems little that I can do for her. I do not understand what kind of dark curse hit her."Lord Greengrass was now standing over them, his shadow itself seemed to be intimidating. "So, this is what you offer my family, my daughter, Potter? This is how you protect the ones you claim to care about?"Harry stood up and looked into Lord Greengrass' face. "I would have rather died than let any harm come to her, or to any that I care about. I will do all that I can to see that she gets the best care, to see that she is healed."Lord Greengrass growled back, "Haven't you done enough Potter?"Harry stood firm, "Apparently not, for if I had, she would not be dying right now."Daphne's body seemed to convulse slightly and then all breath left her. Everyone present gasped, several cried out, but her father remained stoic. He then knelt down and picked her up in his arms. "I will bring her back to the Greengrass Estate, we will make the appropriate arrangements there."Harry reached out and took Daphne's limp hand in his. As he did so, the Black Family rings touched. Everyone was busy staring either at Harry or Daphne's face, or at Lord Greengrass. No one noticed the brief glow as the two rings came in contact with one another. Lord Greengrass glared at Harry once more, and simply stated, "Enough." He then turned to walk back to the manor to floo back to his own home."Astoria," he called out, "you are coming with us!"Astoria felt torn. She then ran up to Harry and gave him a tight hug. As she did so she whispered into his ear while she cried on his shoulder. "I don't blame you, I know it is not your fault, none of this is your fault."After he released Astoria, Harry's knees started to buckle at the sight of his Daphne being carried away, lifeless. Susan came to his side and held him tight and Harry returned the embrace."Now what shall we do?" asked Draco."I know I can't stay here anymore," replied Harry."I'm pretty sure that I can't either," added Draco."You know I'll go wherever you go, Harry," said Susan as she hugged him tighter.Bagley walked up to him at that moment. "I know that this is an awkward time, but we do have an investigation to complete here. Fourteen dead wizards, and a couple more in custody, so I am sure that you can imagine that there will be plenty of questions. Also, we'll have a team looking into what happened to your wards."Harry was still in shock at everything and he didn't respond.Susan then spoke to Bagley, "We'll be sure to be of any assistance that you need, sir."The Auror Captain nodded slightly before returning to his men and giving them orders for working on the remainder of their investigation.Lady Greengrass had not left yet with her husband and daughters and cautiously approached the group. "Aren't any of you going back to school? You never did get a proper seventh year in at Hogwarts."Harry shook his head, and then turned the question back on her, "Whatever for?""To get a job," she said, "to finish your training in magic so you will be properly skilled in using it."Harry scoffed at her words, "Why would I want a job? I'm tired of working as it is. I've taken down dark lords, fought evil wizards, rescued damsels in distress. I've never really had a chance to have a vacation. I find out that I can afford to live a life of leisure and I think that's all I really want to. If I get bored, I suppose I can look into what companies my parents invested in and see what I own. Maybe I can start up a company, buy a Quidditch team or a Football team, or even an American sports team. But I sure as hell don't need to get a job. No offence Lady Greengrass, but I do not need to 'get a job.' I also think I have done enough to show that my skill in magic is sufficient that I do not need training at Hogwarts."Lady Greengrass stared at him for a minute, before she answered meekly, "It seems that perhaps my husband and I have underestimated you, Lord Potter-Black."With those words she turned and left to follow her husband and daughter back to the Greengrass Estate.Susan watched her leave and then she turned back to Harry and asked him, "Then what are you going to do with this estate?"Harry ran his hand through his hair as he answered, "Keep it, have the goblins make sure it stays in good shape. Who knows, I might want to come visit it someday."Susan raised an eyebrow, "But what about now?"He pulled Susan in for a hug. "My best memories are of our leisurely days in the park. Maybe we'll get a yacht and cruise around the Caribbean, or we'll find some way to travel and enjoy our time together. Relaxing together, not in the magical world but in the muggle world, as that's where our relationship grew, that's where I fell in love with you, that's where I want to spend my time with you, Susan Bones Potter."Harry then became aware of a disturbance by the entrance to the manor. It appeared that the Greenrgasses had not left yet. Lord Greengrass' voice could be heard booming from the patio by the doorway. He still was holding Daphne's body as his wife and Astoria stood by his side. "I demand that we be permitted to leave now!"Harry noted that there were two Aurors standing by them and blocking their entrance to the house and therefor access to the floo. Auror Captain Bagley made his way over to the group and calmly spoke with the distraught family."We are still conducting an investigation into all of the events that transpired here," explained the captain. "We will need to speak with your daughter, and any other witnesses about what occurred. Either we obtain their testimony now or we obtain your assurances that we will have access to speaking with her at a later time."Lord Greengrass was growing angrier by the minute. "I have to deal with my daughter," he snapped, holding the lifeless form of Daphne in his arms."I need to speak with your other daughter first, or as I said, at a later time at your home," explained the Auror Captain. "You may leave with Daphne if you must."Lord Greengrass muttered something under his breath.One of the Aurors who was casting diagnostic charms came over and pointed at Astoria. He then spoke quietly to Bagley. Bagley then called Harry over and spoke with him. "Apparently this young lady had a tracking charm placed on her by the Shadow Lord when she was held hostage. That's how they found you, and then they must have spent their time finding a way to take down your wards."Harry closed his eyes and silently cursed himself for not being more careful when they found her."Astoria," called her father, "you may now come with us, we are leaving this place."Bagley looked up and nodded to the other Aurors indicating that it would be fine for her to leave.The Aurors continued their investigation of the grounds and of the dead and injured parties. Bagley also indicated that they would have curse-breakers arriving to look into how the wards were circumvented to allow Yaxley and his people to gain access to Harry's property.A few minutes later, there appeared another wizard who apparated in. The tall thin man was wearing grey robes and moved first to speak with Bagley. He then approached Harry and handed him an envelope, and he then handed a similar one to Draco."What's this?" wondered Draco."I have no idea," replied Harry as he opened his, and then he proceeded to read that it was a summons to appear before a panel of inquiry at the DMLE."Bloody hell," said Draco as he looked at his own note. "It's a summons to appear before the DMLE.""Same here," commented Harry.Draco looked at Harry's note and added with a raised eyebrow, "But yours doesn't have any specific charges listed like mine does."Susan came over and looked at both of the summons notices. "These are summons notices for inquiries only. But you do need to appear before the DMLE."Draco and Harry looked at her a little puzzled."My Aunt was the head of the DMLE," she explained as she regarded their questioning looks. "And you really need to speak with counsel before you show up at the inquiry. And that applies to the both of you."— — —By the next morning Harry had arranged to meet with Andy. She had immediately counselled Draco to have his own attorney which he had already arranged. Narcissa had heard about the summons and she had made arrangements for Draco to meet with the Malfoy family attorney.Draco was initially concerned that this might make him look as guilty as his father, who was already in Azkaban for his crimes, to use the same attorney. However, Narcissa reassured him that by using the family attorney it would simply show that he was a Malfoy, but that was not making Draco feel any more comfortable with his situation.As far as Andy's advice to Harry, the inquiry was simply that, and she didn't foresee any problems that it could pose for him. HIs own role in the ending of the war and in the capture of the Shadow Lord just now would help show Harry's commitment to peace and justice.Draco, however, had a very different encounter with his attorney. Draco arrived at the offices of Aberdan Slipigum. Draco always wondered at the unusual name but shook it off as he entered. He was immediately ushered in to meet with Mr. Slipigum."Ahh, young Draco," said the overly friendly solicitor, "it is so good to see you. Your mother has told me so much about you. It is such a shame that the panel refused to see reason about your father's case."Draco snorted, "My father was a Death Eater and served the Dark Lord for years. There was no way around that. What's done is done. And he is the only one responsible for his current situation.""Alas, but undoubtedly you have a point there, young man," simpered the lawyer. "So, I understand from Narcissa that you have been summoned to appear before the DMLE."Draco nodded, "They have requested that I appear before an inquiry, they have specific charges they plan to address." Draco then handed the man the notice he had received from the DMLE.The attorney read over the note making occasional comments. Then he looked up at Draco as he addressed the charges. "Well, we just need to be prepared to handle each of the charges. First of all, did you wilfully bully other students throughout your years at school at Hogwarts?"Draco shifted a little in his seat, "That depends on you define bully."Aberdan nodded and began scribbling notes with his quill on a piece of parchment, "Good, good, good. That's a wonderful start. Now, did you attack other students with curses and repeatedly get out of trouble through the protection of your head of house?""School pranks," commented Draco, "and I never asked for special treatment from my head of house."The solicitor then asked, "Can we get corroboration from your former head of house?""No, he's dead. Severus Snape died during the Battle at Hogwarts," stated Draco. "Also, the simple fact that he was my godfather may not be looked on too favourably.""Of course he was," commented Aberdan, "it's in all of the paperwork your parents filed on your behalf when you were quite young. Now, things get to be a little stickier with the accusations. It states here that you are accused of having taken the Dark Mark. Surely there is no way that you could have done that while you were still a student…"Draco interrupted the man by extending his left arm and rolling back his sleeve."Oh dear, that will be a little more difficult to explain," commented Slipigum. "Now, there is this other charge, that you had taken an oath to the Dark Lord that during your sixth year you would kill Headmaster Dumbledore and that you had repeatedly tried to murder the man.""I failed three times," commented Draco, "but I was unaware that there was any proof of my connection to any of the attempts, unless somehow Potter himself saw me draw my wand on Dumbledore. But all I did was disarm him. Snape was the one who killed him. He had taken a vow to make sure I followed through on the oath I took to the Dark Lord. The Dark Lord gave me no choice that summer. My father had just been sent back to Azkaban after Potter and his group had gone to the Ministry of Magic and had confronted the Dark Lord and several Death Eaters. My father was captured the same night that Potter and Dumbledore proved to the world that Voldemort had indeed returned. What no one else knew was that he was staying at my house at that time. He threatened my father and my mother and myself if I didn't do what I was told. He told me I could regain the glory of the name Malfoy that my father had lost. What 16 year old is going to defy the Dark Lord Voldemort to his face given a situation like that? I had witnessed first hand what he did to those who displeased him. Sure I thought this made me powerful. It made me powerful only among the other Slytherin students. But honestly, I was scared, because I knew what I would face if I failed."The solicitor dropped his quill which had ben furiously scribbling to capture all of what Draco had to say. "We definitely have plenty to work with in here," he commented. "Now, there is something about destroying the 'Room of Requirement' at Hogwarts. Do you know what that is referring to?""That wasn't me, that was Vincent Crabbe," stated Draco. "We had gone to the room as we had followed Potter there. However, Crabbe got carried away and cast the Fiendfyre spell, which apparently destroyed the room. It killed him as he wasn't able to get out of the room. I was nearly trapped in there, but Potter was the one who saved me and pulled me out.""Saved by Harry Potter himself," stated the attorney as he finished writing on the parchment. "Now, I'll work on preparing some arguments and statements for you for the inquiry. We should meet at least once more before that day. This shouldn't be a problem at all. You were still less than seventeen when most of these events occurred. The only incident that they are even asking about that occurred after you were legally an adult is this 'Room of Requirement' issue, and you weren't the one to cast the dark spell. Now, do you have witnesses to vouch for your version of the story?""Both Weasley and Potter should be able to tell anyone that it was Vincent who cast the Fiendfyre, as it was Weasley who helped get Greg Goyle out of the room that night," explained Draco."Wonderful," said Slipigum, his face beaming, "nothing like using the heroes of the war as your witnesses and your personal champion."When Draco left the office, he wasn't sure if the meeting really was for the best. "I still have one more week before the hearing," he thought to himself, "perhaps other options will present themselves."— — —Harry had finished his meeting with Andromeda Tonks and he was planning to take care of some other business. He considered that so far no one had any idea of where to find Hermione, and he was troubled that she had so easily disappeared that night. He kept going back in his mind to a conversation that they had once had during their time on the run last year, and he decided that he had to give his hunch a shot. He made his way to the apparition spot in Diagon Alley and quickly disappeared.He reappeared with a soft crack in the middle of a wooded forest. The leaves had not yet begun to turn, so it looked quite different than the last time he had been here. He turned around on the spot where he was standing. Then he glimpsed a tent over to one side, not far from the stream. Harry nodded to himself, congratulating himself for recalling Hermione's comments about the Forest of Dean.Slowly he made his way to the tent, and then he called out her name. Harry heard a muffled curse and then the tent door opened and Hermione looked at him, initially unsure of how to react."I came alone, Hermione," he said. "This is a place that only you and I know about. When I figured out you were probably here, I didn't tell anyone, I just came here to see you, to talk to you."With those words, Hermione ran over to Harry and engulfed him in a hug.After several minutes of a silent tear filled embrace, Harry finally managed to speak, "How could you just leave?"Hermione stepped back, still holding onto Harry, "How could you expect me to stay?"Harry shook his head slightly, "But we're not staying, we're all leaving, well almost all of us."Hermione was puzzled, "What's wrong Harry?"He frowned for a moment before he answered. "Susan and I will be sailing to the Caribbean once the inquiry is over. If Draco is acquitted of the charges, he will be joining us. We plan to ask Ron and Catherine if they want to come along too."Hermione looked deep into Harry's eyes and she noted what Harry did and did not say. "What about Daphne?"Harry continued to explain the situation to Hermione, ignoring her question, "Andy says the inquiry is just a formality. At least my part of the inquiry. Apparently Draco's attorney feels everything should go fine as well."Hermione was listening, but was irritated, "I get that Harry, and tell Draco I hope it all works out for him, really I do. But what about Daphne?"Harry continued to ignore her question. "Are you even listening to me? The DMLE is investigating everything that Draco ever did or that he is ever accused of doing. Everything that happened during our years at Hogwarts. They are threatening to put him in Azkaban with his father.""I heard you Harry," she answered, "but there is nothing I can do about that, is there? If you're leaving, that means you have already dealt with the Shadow Lord."Harry nodded, "Yes, he came after us, he even brought down the wards at the manor. We managed to defeat the small army he sent of fifteen wizards. Then he showed up himself and we made quick work of the Shadow Lord himself."Hermione wouldn't let go of her question, "But what about Daphne?"Harry turned away. After a moment of silence Harry finally said quietly, "Susan and I will be leaving for the Caribbean once the inquiry is completed."Hermione came up behind him, "Harry, you haven't answered my question."Harry didn't respond.Hermione understood his silence. "Oh no, Harry, I am so sorry." She then reached out and embraced Harry in a hug from behindHarry finally began to speak softly, "She was trying to protect Astoria, she wanted to keep her sister safe."Harry could feel Hermione crying into his shoulder. He couldn't stop his own tears. After several minutes in silence he turned to face her. "You know I love you and I always will. You once asked what would happen if we just stayed here, just the two of us. I was so tempted by that thought. The two of us, not concerned with the problems of the world, not worrying about some crazed mad killer hunting me down. But you had Ron, I had a damned prophesy, and then there were all those sheep who were waiting for their saviour."Hermione looked at Harry, wiped the tears from her face. "Could we have ever been together?"Harry dried both of their faces. "Could you have tolerated being one of two wives? Could you have accepted the rules of two ancient and noble houses? Granted I didn't know about those rules back then, but eventually we would have learned about them."Hermione bit her lip. "I don't know that I could have done that."Harry smiled at her, "I don't know that I could have ever asked you to do that either."She smiled back at him, "You know you were my first and best friend. You're still my best friend, and times it seems like you're my only friend."Harry's smile grew, "And you are my best and truest friend. Ron may have been my first friend, but you have never abandoned me, you have never turned your back on me. You've always been there."Hermione bit her lip again, "I wasn't there for you when the Shadow Lord showed up.""You didn't abandon me to him, you left to deal with your own hurt," stated Harry. "I can't fault you for that. Ron abandoned me multiple times. He turned his back on our friendship when he should have known better. I can count on you to never do that. Who would have known that Yaxley would find a way to break down the wards? Who would have predicted when he was ready to attack?"Hermione nodded and swallowed hard. "But how did he even find you?""A tracking charm on Astoria," explained Harry. "Her kidnapping was all a plot to get at me. And he succeeded in ways he doesn't even know."Hermione hugged him once moreHarry returned the hug once more, "Now what are you going to do, Hermione?"She sighed, "I really don't know."Harry suggested, "Come back with me?""I really can't do that," she stated firmly, "not as long as she is there.""Don't sell yourself short, and don't sell Draco short.""Ooh, listen to who is defending Malfoy," stated Hermione, almost mocking Harry."People change, people may deserve a second chance," stated Harry, feeling as though he was almost quoting someone. "Someone once told me that, again and again and again.""Don't worry Harry, I won't stay here for ever," she replied, "maybe another day or two."Harry pressed her for an answer, "But then where will you go? Will you avoid us all forever?""I just needed some time," Hermione tried explaining again.Harry reiterated his earlier statement, "You didn't have to leave, you know."Hermione stepped back, shaking her head, "How can you say that? You were there, you heard what she said!""Yes, I did," answered Harry. "But who is she, who is she really? Narcissa Black Malfoy. She has no control over either house. I could cast her out of House Black in a moment if I so chose. Draco, if he dared, could do the same thing with House Malfoy. Hell, he might just do that if it meant getting you back. But what you need to remember is this, House Black will never be the same is what it used to be historically now that I am Lord of the house. Give Draco a chance, and you just might see that House Malfoy isn't the same anymore either. Narcissa has her own ideas about how things should be, but her side lost the war. We won, Hermione. We don't have to give in to them."Hermione stood there, mouth agape, considering what Harry had just told her. There was a revolution afoot of sorts within magical England and many pure-bloods would be powerless to stop it. "Then why are you leaving England?"Harry considered her question for a moment before he responded. "Honestly? Because I think I deserve a break, I think I have earned the right to have some fun, to not have to be the saviour running in to save the day all the time. But I never said I was throwing away my titles.""I'm just not ready yet," she said. "Although you did give me much to think about Harry," she added and then began to laugh.Harry felt confused as he looked at her, "What's so funny?""Usually things are the other way around," she stated, trying to stop her laughter. "You're usually the one sulking and I'm the one having to explain things to you so you can understand life, the universe and everything.""I do understand life, the universe and everything, and the answer is 42," he said with a laugh.Hermione held back a laugh and hit him on the shoulder. "That may be the answer, but you don't know the real question.""I'll settle for what is six times nine," he said with a grin."Base thirteen doesn't matter, according to the author," she quipped back."Oh well, what do you expect for a muggle," replied Harry.The two laughed together for several minutes. Then Harry finally gave Hermione another hug, "I do really need to be going. The inquiry is next week, and assuming all goes well, we do plan to take a muggle cruise ship right after that to the Caribbean, and then stay there for some time. Please, reconsider joining us. Narcissa is not coming along. She is most definitely not welcome on the trip."Hermione bit her lower lip as she considered everything that Harry had to tell her. "I can't promise anything, and I'm really not sure I'm up for that. At least not now, maybe not ever. This has really been an emotional roller coaster over the past six months when you think about it."Harry nodded in understanding. "Please keep in touch, send an owl or something, don't just disappear on me like this. Give me a way to contact you, for my sake at least."Hermione smiled at him and took his hand and squeezed it. "Of course I will, Harry. I still need some time to try and sort this all out though."— — —AN: Corrections updated courtesy of help from Shad0wReaper133





--------




AN: This chapter is a little longer and deals with a couple of issues that some reviewers had complained about previously. Maybe not to their satisfaction, but those issues will be dealt with. Thanks again to those who have given helpful comments about grammatical errors I have missed in my multiple reviews before posting previous chapters. We are getting closer to the end of this story, even if it hasn't exactly followed the path I initially envisioned for it...Harry returned to his new estate and felt bile rise to the back of his throat. He knew that he couldn't stay here and he had hardly lived here at all. In less than a couple of weeks he had been devastated by the loss of his Lady Black when Daphne was taken down by one of Yaxley's men. He had already spoken to Kreacher about moving out of the estate before he went to find Hermione and he was grateful that the process had already begun. He knew that Narcissa had already left the carriage house and moved back to Malfoy Manor. Everyone seemed to assume that the threats were over with the capture of Yaxley and the destruction of his band of followers that attacked Harry and his friends.Draco noticed that Harry had returned and found him sitting in the back gardens. "So, Potter, you have returned from your latest little journey. Did you find what you were looking for?"Harry initially didn't respond to Draco, but after steeling his features and calming his emotions he turned to his newest ally. "Actually, I was successful in a way, but not in what I hoped to do," he answered vaguely. "We have the inquiry tomorrow, and then we need to just prepare for the cruise. It will be good to put all of this behind us." Harry then started to head in towards the manor house."There's no need to go into the manor," stated Draco, not bothering to look at where Harry was heading and not even looking directly at him as he walked past. "The others have returned to Grimmauld Place. I know neither of these locations are exactly comforting to you but Kreacher figured the pain here was to fresh so he already move all of your stuff. Susan wanted to make sure things were in order so she went ahead. Catherine and Ron went with her."Harry stopped and didn't even turn around and just looked at the building in front of him. "I suppose that makes sense." After staring blankly at his new house for a few minutes, Harry apparated to Grimmauld Place.Hermione Granger sent off a patronus message from where she was in the Forest of Dean. The message was short and she hoped that the one she sent the message to would give her a chance to explain soon.Harry and Susan were lying in med together, the day before the inquiry. Harry was looking straight at the ceiling.Susan quietly asked as she rubbed small circles on his chest, "What's bothering you, Harry?"Harry let out a long breath and sighed heavily. "We're trying to leave England, and then everything goes pear shaped with the attack at the estate. We were supposed to be safe there. Then, before we have even dealt with the aftermath of that attack, some ministry lackey shows up and demands that we attend this Inquiry. Why is it that the more I try to leave Britain the more it seems to try and pull me back?"Susan didn't say anything in response but simply lied down next to him and engulfed him in a hug, trying to comfort him. After several minutes holding him in silence she finally spoke, "We'll be leaving soon enough.""No, not soon enough," disagreed Harry. "Daphne can't join us, can she." The bitterness in his words were evident. "We don't even know if Draco will be able to join us, and Hermione is no longer with us."Susan continued to try and comfort him with her touch. "Your family and friends are important to you," she observed. "We're all here for you. Even Ron and Catherine will be joining us on this trip. Ron was reluctant at first, but Catherine did convince him that it should be fun."Harry never took his eyes off of the spot on the ceiling where they had been fixated. "I know, I know," he said. "I'm trying to stay positive. I still don't know what to think about Daphne, or how to react to what happened. Her father has barred me from any follow up with the family since that day."Susan moved to rest her head on Harry's chest. "I'm amazed by your control," she said softly. "You really have progressed with your occlumency to be able to handle it so well."Harry put a hand around Susan and hugged her tight before he responded. "Something feels not right though. Something feels different since that day, and I'm not sure what it is," he said softly. "I'm trying to understand what that feeling is. Part of me thought I would feel a loss, but there isn't the same feeling of loss I had when Sirius died, so I am finding this all quite strange."Susan raised her head and kissed his cheek. "We'll find a way to make sense of it together," she said encouragingly. "We still have each other, Harry. I miss Daphne, too, but I'm sure it will never be the same as what you're going through."Harry looked at Susan and smiled. "The thing is, I just don't know what I'm going through when it comes to Daphne. Something feels off about the Black Family magic, but I still haven't figured out what it is yet."Susan held him tighter and simply commented, "That is something that may just take some time. You may need to study the Black Family magics to better understand it all. I know Daphne was studying it for a while."Harry sat up slightly, propped up on his elbows as he gave Susan a curious look.Susan looked back up at Harry. "I know she was reading the book and Hermione even questioned her about it, accused her of studying dark magic once. Daphne made it clear that as Lady Black she had the right and responsibility to learn the family magic. That seemed to put Hermione off quite a bit."Harry was amazed, as he was not aware of this. Then he asked Susan, "Do you know where the book is?""No," she answered, "but I'm sure Kreacher could get it for you."Later that morning the two had joined their friends for breakfast. The final preparations for the board if inquiry for the next day had been set up with their respective legal counsel. Andy had very little concern for Harry as the summons for Harry was more vague than the one for Draco. Harry's defence for his actions throughout the war was quite easily summarised and she did not feel that there would be any real issues brought forth, especially as the current government was in place as a direct result of the victory at the Battle of Hogwarts which was only achieved due to Harry having defeated Voldemort in battle.Draco's Board of Inquiry would be another matter altogether though as he was facing some potentially very serious charges. Andy had warned Harry that it was entirely possible that Draco could end up in Azkaban depending on how things progressed with the Inquiry. Aberdan Slipigum had reviewed all of the information from his previous meeting with Draco Malfoy and he felt that things were as ready as they could be for the Inquiry for the next day. They had only a brief meeting that afternoon and reassured their attorneys that they would arrive early to the Ministry of Magic to prepare for the DMLE's Board of Inquiry in the morning.— — —Board of inquiryThe morning of the Board of Inquiry arrived and Draco and Harry my with their attorneys at 8 in the morning in the lobby of the Ministry of Magic."This is most unusual," began Andromeda, "the hearing is being held in Courtroom Ten. I had presumed that we would be meeting in a conference room, but the DMLE changed the location of the Board of Inquiry to an actual courtroom."Harry swallowed hard and shook his head. "I've been to Courtroom Ten before."Both Andromeda Tonks and Aberdan Slipigum stared at Harry with surprised looks. "Why were you ever in that room?" asked Slipigum."Just before my fifth year," commented Harry, "when the ministry was trying to discredit me, after Umbridge had sent a couple of dementors to attack me near my Aunt and Uncle's home in Little Whinging and I cast a patronus to protect my cousin, I was brought in on charges of underaged magic and they threatened to snap my wand. They accused me of lying about the dementors, or specifically Umbridge did, and they even changed the time of the hearing to try and make Dumbledore miss the hearing to make it worse for me. They didn't expect that I would have had a witness of a squib living nearby who actually saw the dementors to verify my side of the story. It also didn't hurt that I only cast the patronus in front of my cousin who already knew that I am a wizard, so there was no violation of the secrecy of magic act like I was also charged with at the time."Andy rolled her eyes, "Fudge and his cronies would stop at nothing to make you look bad back then when they were sticking their collective heads in the sand about You Know Who.""His name was Riddle," commented Harry, "Tom Riddle. And using the name Voldemort shouldn't scare anyone anymore after last May. He is well and truly gone now. He can't come back."Slipigum just nodded his head, "If you say so, but we do need to make our way down to the courtroom now."The group made their way through security and then headed down to Courtroom Ten. Harry was less concerned as he walked into the large chamber, until he noted a woman standing behind the podium. She looked vaguely familiar. She was a dour appearing woman, in a green outfit and she had large eyes. Harry thought she looked a little like a frog.Andromeda Tonks whispered to him, "That's Bertha Dunkirk, the lead Inquisitor for the hearings. She has been a low level employee in the DMLE. I have no idea how she managed to get appointed to this Board of Inquiry.""She reminds me of Dolores Umbridge, our onetime DADA professor and the director of the Muggle-Born Registration Commission that Minister Shacklebolt had disbanded," commented Harry."That might be because they are first cousins," added Slipigum. "That doesn't bode well for today."Several DMLE employees, including a couple of Aurors and even two prosecutors walked into the courtroom and took their seats. Harry and Draco noted that there was a fair number of people already seated in the visitors section in addition to many of the Wizengamot members were in attendance and had already taken their seats.Bertha Dunkirk banged the gavel in her hand several times and then proclaimed, "This Inquisitorial Board is now in session! First, we have the matter of Harry James Potter." She cleared her throat briefly and then she glared at Harry. "Now then Mr. Potter, this board has several concerns regarding your behaviour over the past year. It seems that you wilfully and purposefully chose to neglect your education and that you did no return to Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in the fall of 1997. And so it would seem that you have not graduated from this fine institution and without having completed your education you are at risk for being a burden on our magical society and should perhaps have your wand snapped. How do you respond to these facts?"Andromeda simply nodded at Harry when he looked at her before he stood up and spoke. "First of all, I do believe that almost everyone in this room understands full well why I was not in attendance at Hogwarts for my seventh year. Lord Voldemort, more properly known as Tom Marvolo Riddle, who controlled the Ministry of Magic at that time, wanted me dead. I didn't think that was something that was agreeable with my person and I set out on a mission to make sure there was a way to defeat him. This culminated in my arrival at Hogwarts on May 2, 1998. The ensuing fight that took place has since been termed the Battle of Hogwarts that ended when I managed to defeat Riddle and he was destroyed. As far as not completing my education, I would offer the fact that I was skilled enough to take on Voldemort a total of five times over the past seven years, and live to tell the tales, as evidence that my magical training is sufficient. As far as being a burden on society, I do not believe for one moment that will ever happen. Therefore, your suggestion that I should have my wand snapped is simply ludicrous."Dunkirk glared at the young man in front of her. "So, you readily admit to having murdered this Tom Riddle person?"Harry scoffed at the question. "Obviously you weren't there. Voldemort cast the killing curse at me, I cast a disarming charm at him. My spell caused his curse to rebound back at him. He essentially killed himself when I was protecting myself. It happened once before when I was a mere toddler. DOn't be so surprised to hear that it happened again. This time there were even dozens of witnesses."Dunkirk was speechless and her face was turning red with anger. Andromeda Tonks stood up next to Harry. "This is meant to be a Board of Inquiry. Lord Potter-Black's summons did not mention any charges, it simply stated that he was requested to be here today. Is there any further questions for his lordship? Or is he going to continue to be harassed by the ministry, much the same way he was by the Fudge administration when they foolishly tried to deny that Tom Marvolo Riddle had returned after the Tri-Wizard Tournament? Or is this Board of Inquiry intent on trying to embarrass and slander a young man who defeated the individual who called himself 'Lord Voldemort' as an infant, and again at the end of his first year at Hogwarts, and again at the end of his second year at Hogwarts, and then again this past May? This same Lord Potter-Black, who is a Tri-Wizard Champion, who was entered against his will at the age of 14 mind you, and the ministry did nothing to investigate how an under age wizard was entered into this tournament at the time. This same Lord Potter-Black who recently defeated and help capture the self titled Shadow Lord, at significant personal cost. Is this the person that this Board of Inquiry as asked here to slander and question his ability in magic?"Bertha Dunkirk looked as if she had swallowed several lemons and then bit into an onion. "This Board of Inquiry is simply following up on all business from the end of the most recent conflict that affected the Ministry and all of our people."Andromeda glared again at Madam Dunkirk. "Do you have any relevant questions for Lord Potter-Black at this time?""I do believe that the Ministry is satisfied with his answers at this time," she replied tersely, and clearly unhappy that she unable to cow either of them with her questioning. She then shuffled some papers and brought out a large folder. "Now, onto the next part of the Board of Inquiry. We have before us several questions in regard to the behaviour of one Draco Malfoy."The chambers became silent and the previous murmuring about Harry Potter quickly abated.Draco stood up slowly and faced the podium where the green frog-like woman was standing. He thought to himself that her cousin seemed friendlier."Mr. Malfoy, you are here before us today to answer questions about certain behaviours, and these date back over the past seven years. The most serious concerns are the more recent ones, however I will state the concerns chronologically.The charges being levied against Draco Malfoy are as follows:That he did knowingly and wilfully bully students at Hogwarts over the course of his years as a student at Hogwarts.That he took the Dark Mark while still a student, and this can be clearly seen on his arm.That he attempted to kill then Headmaster Dumbledore multiple times throughout his sixth year of schooling at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.That he did allow a group of known Death Eaters entrance into the school on the same night that the headmaster was killed.That he was assisting in the fight with Death Eaters during the Battle of Hogwarts.That he destroyed the Room of Requirement at Hogwarts School on the night of May 2, 1998."Aberdan Slipigum stood up as Madam Dunkirk finished her recitation of the complaints against Draco Malfoy. "We shall proceed to address the various complaints against my client in the order in which they have been presented here. As I understand it, this is not a trial, but simply an inquiry. As such, my client will give an explanation as to his understanding of these accusations against him."Upon finishing his statement, Slipigum sat down and Draco Malfoy stood up and began to speak."As far as the complaint of bullying other students, all I have to say is that I was raised in a pureblood home where I was taught that I was better than others. As such I acted on this knowledge, right or wrong, that is how I behaved. Professors witnessed this behaviour and never called me on it. If that was bullying, then it was sanctioned by the school from what I could tell at that the time. However, it is clear that my actions were not necessarily appropriate and may have been construed as offensive to some and potentially criminal to others. Again, such deeds were done in school where it is sad that the school professors did little to nothing to educate me on the errors of my ways. I say this not to justify my actions but to explain that there was no opportunity to learn and change my behaviour," completed Draco."As far as taking the Dark Mark," he continued and rolled back his sleeve and bared his left forearm, "I have to admit that yes, I was branded by Tom Marvolo Riddle, otherwise known as Lord Voldemort. He was at that time staying at Malfoy Manor at the behest of my father before he was sent to Azkaban after the events of June 1986 that occurred at the Department of Mysteries and the Ministry of Magic. When the Dark Lord made it clear he wanted me to take his mark, I was in no position as a student about to start my sixth year to say no to such a person. At the time I thought it might impress the other students in Slytherin who supported the Dark Lord and the Blood Purist movement, but I did this out of fear for myself and my mother's safety."Draco paused for a moment before he addressed the next accusation. "As far as attempting to kill the then Headmaster, Albus Dumbledore, Tom Riddle did make me promise to try and kill Dumbledore during the school year. He was afraid of Dumbledore and wanted someone to take him out. I soon discovered that he expected that I would die in the attempt and he really only asked me to do this deed as a means of punishment to my family for my father's failures. As far as actual attempts on the Headmaster's life, the only thing that I am guilty of is disarming him in front of a bunch of other wizards and witches. That very night, Severus Snape was the one who cast the curse that killed Albus Dumbledore. Dumbledore himself did nothing to defend himself. He was clearly aware of the others who were coming into the castle that night and he was aware that Professor Snape was going to kill him that night, in fact, he seemed eager to have it happen."There was murmuring and eventually an uproar at the words of Draco Malfoy. People couldn't believe that the leader of the light would just allow someone to kill him and not defend himself. Madam Dunkirk tried to regain order in the courtroom as she banged her gavel.Harry stood up and tried to speak. "If I may, Madam Dunkirk, I was there that night with the headmaster. I had been on a training lesson with him and he knew something was about to happen. He then had me hidden and he also used a temporary stasis charm to prevent me from interfering but he allowed me to witness what happened. I saw Draco confront the headmaster and he was being encouraged by others to kill the headmaster. But he refused to carry out the orders of Tom Riddle. He directly defied the command of the dark lord and his lieutenants. Also, it is equally true that Albus Dumbledore allowed this to happen. That is because very few people knew that he was suffering from a curse that was slowly but surely going to take his life in a matter of weeks if not days. He didn't want anyone to know at that time that he was having any problems so he allowed Voldemort to think that his plans of having him murdered to be carried out. He was well aware of Draco's orders to try and kill him that year and he felt that he was never in any real danger from any actions that Draco may have taken that year."Madam Dunkirk huffed at Harry's impromptu oration. "That's quite enough, Mr. Potter, no one asked for your opinion at this point in the inquiry!"Harry sat down in his seat, but Slipigum looked over and nodded at him and gave him a slight smile."As far as the accusation of allowing a group of known Death Eaters into the castle," continued Draco, "I had been working on a project to repair a magical item in the room that was known as the Room of Forgotten Things, also known as the Room of Requirement. The item was a vanishing cabinet. It was a special assignment from my head of house. I managed to get it into working condition by the end of the school year. Apparently it was connected to another vanishing cabinet, and through this connection a number of witches and wizards made their way into the castle that same night that Professor Dumbledore was killed. At the time I began to work on it, it was as a special project for my head of house.""And who was your head of house," asked Dunkirk, "for the record?""That would have been Professor Severus Snape," he answered.She then asked him, "Was he not also your godfather?"Draco grimaced at the question, "Yes, he was my godfather. And to your next question, he was a marked Death Eater. But I think Potter can verify for you that he was working as a spy for Dumbledore through out the time that Voldemort made his comeback.""You expect the people of magical Britain to believe that the man who we just learned actually killed Dumbledore worked for him as a spy?" asked an exasperated Dunkirk. "Clearly Dumbledore had misplaced faith in his spy.""Quite the contrary," argued Draco, "Snape was the one who killed Dumbledore because Dumbledore asked him to do it. Lord Potter-Black has seen the memories of Professor Snape from just before he died.""Be that as it may," commented a frustrated Madam Dunkirk, sounding shrill as she was quite upset to hear any of Draco's excuses for his behaviour so far, there are still the final two accusations that were levelled against you in the summons for this inquiry."Draco nodded before he began to respond. "As far as the accusation that I assisted the Death Eaters and Voldemort in the Battle of Hogwarts that night, the only participation I had that night was confronting Potter and his two friends in the Room of Requirement. I had followed him there to find out what he was up to. Students were otherwise told to remain in their house dorms unless they were fifth year or older and were offering to help fight against Voldemort and his troops. I went with a couple of my associates, and we came upon Potter and Weasley and Granger looking for something in the Room of Requirement. We had no idea why they were there but we decided to give them a hard time. They tried to leave. Then Vincent Crabbe did something really stupid. He cast the fiendfyre curse. He lost control of it. His curse started to destroy everything in the room. Honestly I thought we all were going to die. Weasley and Potter managed to find old school brooms and fly to the safety of the exit door and they managed to rescue Goyle and myself. I suppose I owe Potter a life debt after that night. After we got out of that room, we realised that Vincent never made it out. He died from his own foolishness, and it wasn't because Potter didn't try to save him too, because he did. Then later on, when we went to join in the battle, I think it was Weasley knocked me out with a punch as he flew by again on a broom. So, I never participated on the actual battle one way or another. The Room of Requirement may have been destroyed by the fiendfyre, but that was cast by Vincent Crabbe, and his father tried to seek revenge against Harry for that earlier this summer and he failed in that. The Aurors and the DMLE already have our complete testimony on that matter."Slipigum stood up as he placed a hand on Draco's shoulder and pushed him back into his seat. "Now, kind sirs and ladies of the Board of Inquiry, my client has addressed the issues raised in the summons. If there is nothing further, we will be on our way. If there is something further, I would expect that it would be in the form of an arrest warrant. As my client has made it quite clear with his open and honest testimony here today that he is guilty of nothing, that he is hiding nothing, then we are confident that he will not be harassed further by this very busy department that has much more important matters to attend to than chasing ghosts and false leads in the Malfoy family. Do not hold the son responsible for the actions of the father."Before anyone could say anything further, Slipigum gestured for Draco to stand and they started to make their way to the exit, closely followed by Andromeda and Harry."Now wait a minute!" bellowed Dunkirk. "Where do you think that you are going? You have not been dismissed!"Slipigum stopped and turned slowly and faced the woman who was looking like a Christmas ornament with her face beet red on top of her dark green clothes. "I thought I made it perfectly clear, we addressed the issues that were put forth in the summons and now we are leaving. Was there something more that you needed Mr. Malfoy or Lord Potter-Black for today?"Dunkirk continued to mutter in response.Then Andy Tonks spoke up, "If you have any further questions for either of our clients, you can contact either myself or Mr. Slipigum and we will see to it that the message gets to either Lord Potter-Black or to Mr. Malfoy." With her final words they all turned and left Courtroom Ten as Dunkirk continued to sputter.Auror Captain Bagley exited to the other side of the courtroom before he burst out laughing at the spectacle he had just witnessed at the expense of the representative from the DMLE.Harry and Draco left the Ministry of Magic building with their respective attorneys and were immediately met by Susan and Narcissa. Received that the Board of Inquiry was over, at least for the time being, the younger ones decided to head to Diagon Alley while the attorneys returned to their offices and Narcissa returned to Malfoy Manor.Harry and Susan decided to make one last visit to Fortescue's Ice Cream Shop, which had been rebuilt after the war had ended, before they were schedule to leave the following week on their cruise. Draco, who wasn't much for eating ice cream, decided to tag along with them. The trio were surprised to be greeted by Astoria Greengrass of all people when they arrived at Diagon Alley."Harry, Draco," she called out to them, "I was so glad to hear that things seemed to go well for you at the Board of Inquiry."The two were stunned that the news had spread so fast. "What do you mean that you heard about this already?""It's all over the wizarding wireless, how that grumpy woman, Dunkirk, tried to embarrass the two of you but how you both explained everything that you did during the war and even before that," explained Astoria. "In fact, the news even went so far as to suggest that her attacks against Harry must imply that she is secretly a Death Eater and they are calling for an investigation into her background."Draco and Harry looked at each other with surprise. Susan grabbed a hold of Harry's arm and smiled at him. "Hopefully some good might actually come of this," she stated as she looked up at him.Harry leaned his head against hers as he smiled back at Susan. Then he turned back to Astoria, "But that doesn't explain how you found us here.""Apparently one of the reporters was listening in to your conversation with Mrs. Tonks and Mr. Slipigum, and they just announced it over the Wireless that you were heading here," said Astoria.Harry frowned and Draco shook his head. "We can't be left alone at all, can we," complained Harry.Astoria took a step back, feeling as though she was intruding and that they were upset with her."We didn't mean you," commented Harry when he noted her reaction.Even Draco tried to comfort the younger Greengrass sister. "Harry was referring to the people in general, we're actually glad that you came here and told us that this whole situation is making news."Susan agreed with them, "Yes, thanks Astoria." She then reached out and gently squeezed one of Astoria's hands. "By the way, how are you doing, considering everything?"Astoria half closed her eyes for a moment and hesitated before she answered Susan. "I'm doing okay, considering. My parents would probably be upset if they knew where I was. They don't want me heading back to school just yet, what with my 'ordeal' that I went through." Then she turned to face Harry directly. "I heard about your plans when I was staying at your estate before the attacks and everything happened. I know you're leaving soon to go on your cruise, to get away. I want to leave, too, I want to go with you."Harry shook his head, "There's no way that can happen, Astoria. You're just too young."Astoria crossed her arms in front of her chest. "I'm a sixth year student, or at least I was until this whole fiasco happened. I'll be seventeen next month, then I'll be old enough to make all of my own decisions.""You can't come with us," repeated Draco, "particularly with what just happened. Your father is already right pissed with Harry. He probably blames all of us to some degree for what happened. If you came with us and you were still underage, he'd have the Aurors come down on us so hard and so fast, it wouldn't be funny."Astoria bit her lip and pouted. "He wouldn't necessarily have any idea where I went. I could head back to school, and leave from there. By the time my parents knew I wasn't at school, I'd already be of age to make my own decisions."Draco tilted his head slightly as he thought about it. "No one else knows our plans," he said, pondering the idea. Then he turned back to Astoria, "Does anyone even know you're here with us?""No, I left without my parents knowing about it," she replied.Draco turned back to Harry, "This could work. It would be completely her choice."Harry shifted uncomfortably from one foot to the other. "I still don't like it, we could be made out to look like we kidnapped her."Astoria was starting to smile as her hopes about joining them were increasing. "Look, I'll return home now, and I'll be back at Hogwarts in a couple of days. I can make plans to join you, I'll even pay for my own ticket, so that way no one can say you forced me to join you. I'll find a way to get a message to you once I get to school. Just don't leave without me!"Astoria then made her way to the apparition point, and the other three watched her leave."This can't be a good thing," muttered Harry."You never know," commented Susan. "Who knows what might come of this?"Kingsley Shacklebolt sat in his office at the Ministry of Magic. He had just received another surprising message via patronus."Very well," he thought to himself, "I'll see to it that she can address the Wizengamot as soon as possible."He called in one of his aides and reviewed when the next open session for the Wizengamot was scheduled to be held and he was promptly told that it would be in two weeks. After the aide left, he pulled out a piece of parchment and he drafted a reply to the patronus message he had received.Two weeks later Harry and Susan were getting settled into their suite on the cruise ship that was about to set out towards the Caribbean. Just down the hall was Draco getting settled into his room, and he now had Astoria joining him for the cruise. She had managed to return to school and then contact the group and make it to the cruise ship without her family or friends knowing about what she was up to.Harry was still worried about this, but Astoria told him that she would be writing to her parents once she turned seventeen but that she would not tell them who she was with at first. Draco tried to ease the tensions by explaining that she was traveling with him and not with Harry, so that officially Harry was not directly involved. Susan even pointed out that everyone with them could easily testify that Harry had counselled that Astoria not accompany them if it came down to that.Ron and Catherine had decided to join them and they had their own suite, although not as large as the ones that Harry and Draco had selected for the cruise.Later that afternoon, as the ship left port, Astoria leaned in close to Draco and she pointed out that by the time they reached their port of call in the Caribbean, that she would be seventeen.Draco looked down at her and shook his head slightly and stepped back into their cabin from the balcony to clear his thoughts.Three days after the cruise ship had left, Hermione arrived at the Ministry of Magic to speak with the minister himself. Kingsley Shacklebolt was expecting her and his receptionist ushered her into the office upon her arrival."Good morning, Miss Granger," he greeted."Good morning, Minister," she replied."Oh, stop the formalities, we've known each other too long, and we've been through too much," he said with a broad smile. His manner was warm and he did seem truly grateful to have her here this morning. "So, you are really prepared to get up in front of the Wizengamot this morning to deliver this message?""Of course I am!" she exclaimed. "I wouldn't have wasted your time with sending you those messages if I wasn't fully prepared to do this."Kingsley nodded. "This could mean my job if it doesn't go over well, you do realise that."Hermione looked down at the floor in front of her for a moment before looking him back in the eyes, "I guess I hadn't thought it through fully. I was banking on my fame as one of the 'Golden Trio,' as one of Harry Potter's closest friends who helped win the war to carry me through this."Shack smiled at her, "That is precisely what is allowing you to be here today. That is the excuse I will be using when I get up to give my speech to the entire Wizengamot and I step aside to let you speak. Where is goes from there will entirely be up to you.""My hope was that this could help bring real change to the magical world," she said. "That maybe this might finally open their eyes to what has been going on for years and years."Kingsley laughed slightly, "I wonder if anything could ever open the eyes of some of these people. Much of their prejudice is due to centuries of these same old beliefs. I doubt one message from a muggleborn witch will be enough to sway them, but then again, we are talking about you, Hermione Granger, and I haven't heard your entire message."Hermione blushed slightly at the minister's words.There was a knock on his office door. His receptionist stuck her head in and politely commented, "The meeting will be starting soon, Minister. You should be making your way to the chambers soon."Kingsley nodded and replied with a simple, "Thank you." Then he turned to Hermione and offered her his arm to escort her to the Wizengamot meeting.They walked together to the main chambers and when he walked in he had her take a seat near the entrance and he took the customary seat for the Mister for Magic. Soon all of the members of the Wizengamot had been accounted for, either through attendance at the meeting today, or through a roll call of their proxies who were in attendance. Hermione was a little surprised by how many wizards and witches were actually present including a large number of spectators already present in the viewing area. The Chief Warlock stood up at the podium and called everyone to stand and then he called the meeting to order.Amos Diggory had been the Chief Warlock since shortly after Shacklebolt had been appointed Minister for Magic. He spoke loud and clear as he called the minister forward. "Our esteemed minister has a message for us, and that is why he as requested the entire body to be in attendance today."He then sat down and Kingsley Shacklebolt approached the podium. The members of the Wizengamot politely settled down as the minister stood up tall behind the rostrum. Kingsley grabbed ahold of the podium and stared at everyone for a few moments before he began to speak. "Recently we saw the capture and defeat of Donald Yaxley, otherwise known as the Shadow Lord." He paused as there were some cheers and scattered applause. "However, this man was just another thorn in the side of our community, following in the misguided ways of others before him who have attempted to threaten and harm others for holding different beliefs than their own. What we need to focus on, especially during this time of rebuilding after the recent war and difficulties that troubled our people and our society, is what should be uniting us as a magical community, not what should be dividing us. So, for more on this, I will be yielding the floor to a young woman, a young witch who was instrumental in bringing an end to the recent conflict with the Death Eaters and the previous regime that controlled our government and threatened our peace. I now present to you Miss Hermione Granger."Hermione stood up and walked cautiously to the podium. There was an uncomfortable silence in the hall as she prepared to speak. She noted there was a glass of water next to the podium and she was grateful for this. After clearing her throat once, she took a small sip of the water and then she began to speak."Ladies and gentlemen, witches and wizards, thank you for hearing me out today. Before I begin, I would like to make it perfectly clear that everything I am gong to present has been reviewed with the minister and the facts have been verified as to their authenticity. In other words, you may not like some of the things I have to say, but I assure you, that everything I will be saying is the truth. I am here to speak to you all about the effects of both of the recent wars that have affected Magical Britain. I am here to present to you the truth about the man who presented himself publicly as The Lord Voldemort.""There were gasps throughout the hall, and Hermione spoke loudly over them. "He is gone, he has been forever defeated by the events of May 2, 1998. He can never return to torment us, so his name is no longer something to be feared. Also, that name which he gave himself, was an anagram of his given birth name. The phrase 'I am Lord Voldemort' is an anagram for the name Tom Marvolo Riddle. This was revealed to Harry Potter many years ago during one of his first encounters with a shadow of Tom Riddle when Harry was still a young student at Hogwarts. Tom Riddle spouted a lot of pureblood elitist propaganda, but in truth he was born a half blood and was raised in a muggle orphanage. He grew up to hate muggles and he hated his own family. His goal was to gain power for himself, regardless of who he hurt along the way. Those of you who are of pureblood families who supported him, I want you to think about that has happened since before the Death Eaters came on the scene before the first war with Voldemort. How many Pureblood families were there? How large were these families? Let s now consider the sacred twenty-eight."These families are considered by some, or by many, to be the most pure of pureblooded magical lines in all of England. I will recount for you the status of each one of those family lines as of today.""Abbot - there is only one surviving member - Hannah Abbot, who is repeating her seventh year at Hogwarts right nowAvery - this family was completely wiped out by the end of the last war — and they were known supporters of RiddleBlack - the only surviving family members are Narcissa Malfoy, Andromeda Tonks, Teddy Lupin, and Lord Harry Potter-BlackBulstrode - there are only a few family members leftBurke - One survivor - Mr. Burke, who runs Borgin and Burke's shopCarrow - Flora and Hestia are the only two survivors and they are currently students at HogwartsCrouch - the family was wiped out during the warsFawley - there are only a few family members leftFlint - line eliminated during the war when Marcus Flint died at the end of the war, his family were supports of Tom RiddleGaunt - this family was essentially eliminated by Tom Riddle himself. Riddle was a Gaunt, so the line ended with his own deathGreengrass - This family is down to Lord Greengrass, his wife and his daughterLestrange - another family that supported Riddle that was also eliminated during the warLongbottom - this family is now down to the heir, Neville and his grandmother. Neville' parents remain on the long term spell damage ward at 'sMacmillan - Ernie McMillan is repeating his seventh year at Hogwarts currently and he also has some other distant family membersMalfoy - this family is down to Draco Malfoy as the sole member to carry on the lineNott - down to Theodore, currently repeating his seventh year at Hogwarts. The rest of his family died during the most recent war and were confirmed supporters of RiddleOlivander - down to Garrick's son who has recently taken over running the wand crafting shop in Diagon AlleyParkinson - only Pansy and her mother is left, and again this family supported Riddle during the warsPrewett - the first war eliminated the family line — the Weasleys are the only relationsRosier - another family eliminated during the warsRowle - another family eliminated during the warsSelwyn - another family eliminated during the warsShacklebolt - Kingsley, our Minister for Magic, is the only surviving member of this familyShafiq - this family status is unknown — they have not been heard from for over thirty yearsSlughorn - there are a few family members leftTravers - another family eliminated during the warsWeasley - still many of them around, but all of the young men are sons of Arthur Weasley, of his seven sons, only six survived the warYaxley - the young Catherine Yaxley is the last member of the family line now that her father has been recently captured""What does this teach us? Two important lessons. One, Tom Riddle didn't care for pureblood families. He killed indiscriminately. Whole families were wiped out, and many of those were his own supporters. Yes, he often targeted muggles and muggleborns, but he also often targeted the pureblood families. Two, The number of truly pureblooded families is very low. Many families of the so called Sacred Twenty-Eight have been completely eradicated. That is the true legacy of the two wars that were brought about by Tom Riddle and his Death Eaters. There are now less pureblood wizards and witches than there were forty years ago. And as a result, the trend cannot change."And now, that brings me to the next point of my presentation before you. And that has to do with magic, a true understanding of magic. You need to understand what magic is, where it comes from, how muggle born witches and wizards come to be. You need to understand why the muggleborns choose to leave the wizarding society.""Your magical society does not prepare them to be a part of it. You do not teach them about it. Then you curse them for not knowing about your ways and your customs. You refuse to give them a place to work, a place to stay, a place to fit in, and then you curse them for wanting to leave. If you want the muggleborn magic users to stay, you have to welcome them. They need to understand your ways, the reasons why you do what you do. They need to learn your history and by this I do not mean the history of goblin rebellions which is all that seems to be taught at Hogwarts. But the history of the people who use magic. The history of your families, of your struggles, why you keep yourselves hidden from the muggles. You also need to learn about the muggles. Not the nonsense that is taught in muggles studies at Hogwarts that is over 100 years out of date. You need to learn about their present day society. Their science can do things that seem like magic. Do not be afraid of them, but learn from them, so as to make ourselves stronger. When you do this, then you can and will more easily welcome the muggle born into the magical society. Then they won't try and change this society so much.""But what lead us to the situation we are in today? A recent capture of a supposed dark lord a mere months after the end of the second war with Tom Riddle, otherwise known as Voldemort. Who ended that war, the reign of terror created by Tom Riddle? Remember, his actions, his followers were killing muggles, muggleborn, half-bloods and purebloods alike. We already listed SOME of the families that Riddle wiped out. Not to mention the Bones family, the Potter family, plus many more that I am sure all of you can think of."The most terrible dark wizard of our times was stopped by what you would call a blood traitor, a mud-blood and a half-blood. What does that tell you about his so called mantra of blood supremacy? Tom Riddle and the Death Eaters supposed call for blood purity did more to wipe out pureblood families than any other action in the history of the magical world. More families were lost to their actions than any medieval witch hunt, than any muggle attacks, than even all of Grindewald's battles.""Think about that.""And when you consider all of this information, consider how your saviour, The Boy Who Lived, has been treated over the time he was a student at Hogwarts. Abused and scorned most of the years, especially by those in Slytherin and those whose families were Death Eaters, Death Eater sympathisers or blood purists. During our second year, he was accused of being the Heir of Slytherin. Now that is one of the most ridiculous things I ever heard. He was a Potter, and a half blood. How could a Potter be descended from Salazar Slytherin, I'll never know, especially when anyone who does any research would know that he would be a descendant of Godric Gryffindor. Harry Potter was maligned throughout his fourth year when he was entered into the Tri-Wizard tournament against his will. The faculty didn't do anything to stop the abuse he received from other students. They didn't do anything to prove he didn't enter his name on his own, which there was no way he could have, and there was definitely ways which they could have shown that Harry did not enter his own name. Throughout the tournament the Daily Prophet continued to print lies about Harry. Then, after he won the tournament and Cedric Diggory was killed, then Minister Fudge refused to believe that Voldemort, Tom Riddle, had returned. It would have been easy to prove that Harry was right, but the ministry refused to do anything about it, other than publicly try and discredit poor Harry. This same Harry Potter, who by the way, faced various manifestations of Voldemort at the end of his first year and at the end of his second year at school, had now faced Voldemort 4 times in his life, and survived each time."Then the minister sends an incompetent but sadistic teacher to the school to torment Harry for our fifth year in school, which ultimately led to a confrontation between Harry and Voldemort at the Ministry of Magic that spring, proving to Fudge and the rest of the magical world that the Dark Lord had indeed returned. And Harry Potter had survived another encounter with Tom Riddle. Throughout all of this, where was the support from the ministry? Nowhere to be seen. Harry was ostracised by most students, abused by professors at school, and sent to live with muggle relatives who hated him. This was the treatment of your so called saviour, your chosen one. Then Riddle and his followers took over, and Harry had learned of a way that would make Riddle vulnerable, a way that he could be defeated. That was why we were not at school that last year. We were on a special project, or mission. Obviously we were ultimately successful."Which brings us to today, and this discussion. There are still those who support Riddle and this blood purity nonsense. Magic is magic. You may have had it in your family longer than I have had it in mine, that makes neither one of us better. It should make you feel obligated to help me learn your history, not treat me like dirt. Some would say that since I am new to magic, that I am not as powerful in magic as they are. I say that's a load of horse manure."We need to end the discrimination against first generation magic users, what you would call muggleborn. We need to promote a healthy magic community, where we all work together, so no more families are wiped out. You don't have to agree with me on politics or things like that, but we need to agree that anyone with magic should be properly trained and allowed to participate in magical society."It is because this magical world does not allow such things, and it has treated people such as Harry and myself so poorly despite everything which we have done, that muggleborn and half-blood magic users do not like to stay in the magical world. It is for that reason that Harry Potter is choosing to leave England and live in the muggle world somewhere else."At these words there were gasps and jeers and protests voiced. Amos Diggory finally managed to reclaim order with his gavel and Hermione was finally able to continue."Yes, the press is here. And when word gets out to the rest of the magical world, that your saviour, The Boy Who Lived, is turning his back on you for the way this country has continued to treat him, how will that look? But you all have a decision to make going forward. You can choose to keep living in the past, allow the power struggles between pureblood families trying to hold onto control of everything and keep half-bloods and muggleborns out of the ministry and marginalised in society, or together we can build a stronger magical society of everyone working together."With those words Hermione stepped away from the podium to a shocked Wizengamot.After the meeting was over when she left the Wizengamot chambers reporters were flocking around here, trying to get her to confirm the information which she relayed during her speech.Hermione simply replied, "I have all of the data to support all of the claims which I made. This data has been made available to the Minister for Magic. You can contact his office for details on this data."Aurors soon came along to clear the hallway and allow Hermione the ability to freely leave. Hermione managed to duck into an unused office for a few minutes to collect herself. Once she stepped back into the hallways, the area had been cleared and she was relieved that she could move about freely without feeling that she was being attacked by the press or anyone else for that matter.Hermione then made her way to the lobby to leave the Ministry of Magic building and that was where she saw her. Standing in the middle of the lobby, near the restored fountain, was Narcissa Black Malfoy. Her appearance was as stern as Hermione could ever recall. Hermione was hoping to avoid any confrontation with the woman, however that was not about to happen. Narcissa approached her directly.Speaking softly she said simply, "We need to talk."Hermione raised an eyebrow, "Oh, I didn't realise that you even spoke to my kind.""There is no need to be rude, Miss Granger," replied Narcissa. "If you are expecting an apology, stop holding your breath, because you won't get one. However, it is still clear that there is much for us to discuss. I suggest that we meet over lunch. In fact, I'm buying, and frankly, I insist."Hermione looked up and sighed. "Fine, seeing as how you insist."Narcissa smiled thinly. "I know just the place. Come with me, and we can floo there directly."The two women arrived at an elegant restaurant. As they stepped out of the floo, the maitre d' immediately recognised Narcissa Malfoy and walked up to her and Hermione. "Two for lunch, Lady Malfoy?""Yes, thank you, Jean-Paul," replied Narcissa. "My usual table, if you don't mind, with the usual privacy wards as well.""But of course, madame," said Jean-Paul with a slight bow. "Please, follow me, your table is ready and the wards will be erected momentarily."The two ladies were then seated at their table. Jean-Paul left them with menus and assured them that their waiter would be by in a minute and the wards were also in place. When Hermione went to pick up her menu, Narcissa gently tapped it to put it back on the table."No dear," she said lightly, "we'll have none of that. I'll be ordering us our meals, so just trust me on this as I know the food here quite well."Hermione was about to protest but then thought better of it."I suppose you're wondering why I brought you here," stated Narcissa."The thought had crossed my mind," agreed Hermione.The conversation was briefly interrupted as the waiter arrived to take their orders. Narcissa quickly explained what each of them would take to eat and then she turned back to face Hermione."I was there in the gallery, and I listened to everything you had to say," commented Narcissa.Hermione was still feeling puzzled. "I appreciate that," she began, "however I am confused as to just why you were even present today at the Wizengamot session. I was informed that it was a session for the Wizengamot members only and maybe a few members of the press. In fact, today's meeting was to be the minister's regularly scheduled update. I had only spoken to Minister Shacklebolt about my possibly speaking today and he assured me that he wouldn't be reveal to anyone that I would be here today.""I'm a Black," Narcissa said proudly, "I have my connections for various needs. I have my ways of finding out things I need to know."Hermione felt like rolling her eyes at the statement, but thought better of it. "So, what was your opinion of what I had to say?"Narcissa smiled slightly and took a sip from the glass of wine that was served for them. "I must say that it was at least enlightening. The theories which you espoused shed a whole new light on our world."Hermione was wary of just where this conversation was headed so she stayed quiet.Narcissa inclined her head slightly as Hermione was not responding right away. "You did make some interesting points and you reached some very interesting conclusions. I presume that the minister confirmed all of your information before he allowed you to speak so as not to put himself in a terribly awkward position going forward.""You would be presuming correctly, Lady Malfoy," was Hermione's terse reply.Narcissa shook her head slightly as she quietly corrected her young companion. "No, we've been through much too much for that, I insist that you call me Narcissa. Even Cissy would do, but I fear that would be much to informal for you to feel comfortable with, so you'll probably just stick with Narcissa.""Very good, then, Narcissa it is," agreed Hermione who was still feeling quite uncomfortable with the whole situation."Very good, indeed," replied Narcissa with a little mirth. "So based on what you had to say you would claim that the individual that my husband followed for so many years was actually trying to decimate the very pure-bloods that he claimed to represent. That he had a vendetta against all magical and against all muggles, that he essentially hated everyone and wanted all of the power for himself and to hell with everyone else. Is that what your are essentially saying?"Hermione bit her lip before replying. "I mainly wanted to make sure people knew the truth about Tom Riddle. That people knew the truth about what has been dividing the magical society.""Such a Gryffindor answer," said Narcissa, "for such a Slytherin manoeuvre. If I can see through what you have done, do you really think no one else will?"Hermione hesitated before responding to Narcissa's question."Now let's be honest, Hermione," said Narcissa. "I can call you Hermione, can't I? You are creating your own little revolution and it's bound to be bigger than anything Riddle or Voldemort or whatever his name has tried to do. And so far you've done it without a single drop of blood. Now whether or not it remains a bloodless revolution remains to be seen, but the first salvo was shot and I must applaud you for such a magnificent display.""I never meant," began Hermione, "I only wanted to educate people.""Be honest with yourself, dear," she said calmly, "you want a revolution. You've engineered it quite well, I might add.""My intent was simply to educate," protested Hermione."And that is what makes what you did so amazingly brilliant and so spectacularly surprising to the magical world," said Narcissa with a smirk. "You educated the people with the truth. Such naiveté but honesty has probably never been allowed to address the entire Wizengamot in its entire existence. They honestly have no idea what to do with you right now. They've probably all gone back to their little back rooms to debate whether to stone you, burn you at the stake, throw you through the veil, send you to Azkaban, install you as the next Minister, or bow down to you as queen to perhaps hail you as the next coming of Morgana LeFay herself."Hermione's jaw dropped."I'd hope for the latter," remarked Narcissa, "because anything else just wouldn't do you justice."As she finished her words the meals they had ordered had arrived. Hermione however was left speechless."You can't be serious," she commented."Of course not, Sirius was my cousin, who my deranged sister regrettably sent through the Veil," quipped Narcissa.Hermione shook her head in disbelief that the woman sitting across from her just used that old pun."Our world will be changed after today," remarked Narcissa, "and that change will be because of your words. I can and will acknowledge that. Somewhere, my son is out there, and eventually he will hear of what you have done. If you return to his side, I will not stand in your way. However, he is a Malfoy, I have no idea how his pride will react to your leaving, regardless of your motivation to do so at the time."Hermione avoided looking at Narcissa for some time. She ate her lunch in an awkward silence before looking back at the woman sitting across from her. "I am at a loss for what to say to you in response to what you have told me today.""Then say nothing, my dear," replied Narcissa. "Do not feel compelled by social norms to follow such rules. Merlin knows that no member of the Black family would ever do so, well up until now that is. Now we have this young Lord Black who will turn everything on its head, or so it would seem from what I can tell. If and when you do see your friend Harry, remind him that as Lord Black, he is supposed to create some mischief just for the benefit of the Black Family. That is where his godfather got a lot of his supposed 'bad habits' from in the first place."AN: Yes, there are still many unanswered questions, that hopefully will be resolved soon. Most of them have to do with the name Greengrass somehow involved. Others may have to do with Granger or Minister or even Narcissa. Thanks again for reading and for the useful feedback.





--------




AN: Here we go...hopefully this answers some of your questions...although it probably causes more to be asked...Another short chapter, but it is done in time for the holidays...Several months later…The early afternoon sun was bright, and the occasional clouds made for a lovely day. There was little shade from the nearby palm trees, so Harry and Susan were relaxing under the shadow of the cabana near the sea. Their new island home along the Caribbean was quite peaceful. Just taking the time to relax together was a wonderful way to spend the day. They had spent the better part of the morning snorkelling around the reef in their private bay on this the leeward side of the island.Susan quietly pointed out Draco and Astoria walking along the beach together. Over the time that they had been together on the island Draco had become more comfortable spending time with Daphne's little sister, who was not so little anymore.Astoria skipped lightly through the gentle surf. "So are you finally glad I insisted on joining you?"Draco smirked slightly, trying to hide his grin. "I guess you could say so."Astoria beamed at his words and then ran next to him and took his hand in hers. "So, how long do you think it will be before Harry gets sick of us and kicks us out and tells us to go find our own place?"Draco shook his head at her questions. "Do you always have so many questions? You could always ask him yourself, squirt. But I can tell you right now he will never send us away. Even me, once his biggest enemy, okay, maybe his second biggest enemy, but biggest thorn in his side."Astoria stopped her dancing around in the surf and held both of Draco's hands as she looked over his shoulder and stole a peak at their host. "Why is that? You've obviously known him longer than me, and I know he worked hard to save me from Yaxley and all that. And I figured out he probably would have done it even if I wasn't Daphne's little sister, because Harry just does things like that. But why? Why does he do these things?"Draco briefly turned and glanced at Harry and then looked back at Astoria. "I've been trying to figure that out. I saw him act this way for years at school. Always helping out those who needed it, whether it be Weasley, or Granger, or Looney Lovegood. It never mattered to him, he was there. I always saw it as a weakness. I was raised to see it as a weakness. Helping others and getting nothing in return, not even lording it over them, not planning to exact some revenge or extortion or blackmail like the Malfoy family would have done. Initially I assumed it was just his yearning for friendship."Astoria tilted her head and gave Draco a puzzled look, "Well, he was raised an orphan, so I would imagine that would at least play a part in it.""That's the thing," explained Draco, "it goes way beyond that with Potter. Sure, that is part of it, but he genuinely cares for everyone. Why he ever considered being my friend, and wanting to help me I'll never understand." Draco paused for a moment in his answer and then he took her by the hand and started to lead her along the beach again before he started to speak about his relationship with Harry some more."Did I ever tell you about the time he saved my life, during the Battle for Hogwarts?"Astoria shook her head as she looked up at Draco.He then continued, "I was still acting like a bit of a prat back then, and I was being followed everywhere by Greg and Vince. We noticed Potter and his two tag-alongs heading up into the castle, so we decided to follow. They went to the Room of Requirement, the same room where Potter was teaching students defence back in what was our fifth year, and we were wondering what he was up to. He was obviously looking for something. Well, Vincent decided to try and scare them all and he cast the fiendfyre spell and it got away from him, he just couldn't control it. We all could have died in there, but Potter, he and Weasley, they found old brooms and they flew over the flames and they made it to the door and they were escaping. But Potter and his noble saving people thing, actually came back and saved me of all people."Astoria stopped walking and turned back and stared at Harry for a moment before looking back at Draco. "Did you ever thank him for that?""Kind of, in my own way," he muttered."Do you know why he did that?""He's Harry effin' Potter," commented Draco wryly, "it's what he does. Why are we here, on a Caribbean Island, staying at a mansion on the coast, with gorgeous views and far away from magical England? Why did he bring a group of friends with him? Because it's the sort of thing Harry Potter does: defeat evil wizards for breakfast, take a vacation with your friends in time for tea, save the world before supper."Astoria looked deep into Draco's eyes, "And you just happily ride his coattails?""I needed a way out of my own difficulties after the war ended," he confessed. "The easy way out would have been to hide behind my father's money. Or to run away. I wanted to run, and I guess in a sense I did, by turning to someone who could show me a different side of life. I turned to Potter, and nearly demanded that he help me, but he didn't really owe me anything at that time."Draco paused and laughed slightly. "I can only imagine what he must have thought, the one student who harassed him throughout most of his years at school, coming up and approaching him after the war was over and asking him to show him the muggle world, to take me in as it were. He must have thought me barmy to even ask."Astoria shook his head, "He must have figured you thought he was barmy for agreeing to your plan.""Maybe a little of both, or maybe we're both growing up," commented Draco.Astoria leaned in against him as they turned back and made their way towards the cabana where Susan and Harry were resting. When they sat down in lounge chairs next to the other couple, Astoria asked, "So, do you guys know where Catherine and Ron have run off too?"Susan answered first, "I think they have gone back to that place in Florida, what was it called, Magic Kingdom? Ron is still trying to figure out if the Americans have violated the statutes of secrecy with that place, but Catherine is tagging along to make sure that he doesn't violate it while they have fun there."Draco snorted at the answer. "That's just his excuse. He just wanted to go back on the rides, especially Space Mountain."The others laughed. Harry agreed, "That would be about right, and as I recall, we all had a lot of fun when we spent the week at Disney last month."Susan sighed and looked out over the Caribbean Sea. "It looks so peaceful out there right now, I'm glad the hurricane season has passed."Harry looked out and enjoyed the view and shrugged slightly. "Of course, the main mansion up the hill from here is well protected with the wards we had installed, so if any hurricanes head this way next summer or fall I'm not worried for our own property."Susan pouted slightly, "But what about the nice locals we have met here?"Draco looked at her and shook his head. "Always expecting Harry to be the hero? Of course we'll all help clean things up. Besides, he can afford to help them out, and we'll all carefully do some of the heavy lifting when no one is looking."Astoria smiled at Draco. Then a large parrot flew down to their table. Harry laughed at the colorful bird, "I do miss Hedwig, but these mail parrots are much prettier than the mail owls back in England."The parrot dropped off some mail and a copy of the Daily Prophet. Harry tossed the paper aside, refusing to even look at it.Susan was half tempted to read it, Draco looked at it warily, and then Astoria finally picked it up and started to peruse the articles. When she gasped slightly, the others looked at her, waiting on her to explain."Now what has happened back in jolly old England?" came Harry's sarcastic question."It seems a task force was actually created by the Wizengamot after Hermione's speech when we were leaving," she stated. "The task force reported that they have confirmed everything which she reported in her speech.""Of course," added Susan, rolling her eyes. Harry remained silent.Astoria continued, "It seems that her publicist is calling for a shake up in the government."Harry was shocked at the last statement. "Hermione has a publicist?""Yes, apparently she does," continued Astoria. "It goes on to show her being accompanied to a fancy ministry sponsored event with Neville.""I thought Neville was with Hannah," spoke Harry quietly."We must have missed that issue of the gossip rag," commented Susan, who seemed concerned about her friend Hannah and wondered what had happened.Draco remained quiet throughout the current discussion."The paper goes on to mention Hermione's planned speaking engagements, and apparently they have been trying to get an interview with her but her publicist hasn't scheduled it yet," added AstoriaDraco finally asked, "Who is this publicist that seems to be handling her so well?"Astoria turned to the page to the next part of the article. "Oh, here it is," she then paused and gasped. "Oh, my word, Morgana and Merlin," she exclaimed and then she turned to Draco.Draco raised an eyebrow at her concern, "What's wrong?"Everyone sat up and was looking at Astoria who just stared speechless at Draco. Finally Harry took the paper from her and found the article and began to read. Then he turned to look at Draco as he quietly stated, "It's your mum. Narcissa is working for Hermione.""Bloody hell," said Draco as he slipped down in his chair, holding his head in his hands. "How by Merlin's beard did that happen?"Astoria went to reach out to hold him but then pulled her hand back tentatively, unsure of how to handle the situation.Susan was the first to speak up. "Do you plan to go back and speak to either one of them?"After a minute in silence Draco sat back up and shook his head. "No, of course not. Yes, we left, but there has been nothing preventing either one of them from finding us, from contacting me, from telling me anything about what was going on back there."Harry rubbed his forehead for a moment and then he spoke. "I met with her, with Hermione, before we left. I did find her. She didn't want me to tell anyone." He paused briefly before continuing. "I did invite her to come back, to come with us. She did know where we were going and when we were going. I think she was tempted to come, but she indicated she had something to do first. I presume that was her speaking at the Wizengamot. I can only guess that after she did that one thing led to another…" His voice then trailed off.Astoria wasn't sure what to say. She knew that Draco had been involved with Hermione and that Hermione had left him and she was fairly sure he still had feelings for her. Now she truly wondered what would happen with her relationship with Draco. Draco silently stood up and put his hands in his pockets and walked to the beach. Astoria looked to Susan, raising her eyebrows in a silent question of what should she do.Susan shook her head. "He needs some time to sort things out in his own mind. Yes, he still aches for her, but if you want a future with him, he needs to figure out on his own that he has no future with Hermione. I honestly don't know what will happen there. Be patient. He knows you're here. He also knows you care," she reassured her young friend.~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Hermione made her way back to her apartment after the ball. Once again she had been invited to another big ministry event, and she had made an appearance just as she had been coached. Walking into the apartment she kicked off her high healed shoes, allowing her feet to finally relax and she dropped onto her sofa. Neville followed her into the room and sat down across from her on one of the large cushioned chairs."Well, that wasn't so bad for a ministry event," he said with a slight laugh."No, not at all," she smiled. "Thanks again, Nev, for coming.""Hey, I wouldn't miss it for anything," he quickly responded. "I'll always take the opportunity to be with you."Hermione looked at him with a smile and sighed, "Yes, but you never did tell me what happened between you and Hannah."Neville blushed a little. "I guess things just weren't working out."Hermione frowned slightly, then asked, "How so? You two seemed to be so good together the last I saw."Neville sighed heavily and looked around the apartment and then settled into the chair a little more. "It seems I've got the time to try and explain. Well, as things became more serious between Susan and Harry and Daphne and Harry, she kept complaining how that was unfair to Susan. She kept complaining about Harry this and Harry that. After a couple of months of listening to her go on and on about how horrible Harry was, it reminded me of how she treated him back in school. So I finally pointed out that Harry was like my best friend, that Harry was the first wizard to believe in me, and it was Harry who gave me the confidence to be able to lead people last year while you guys were away. She got all defensive about that, but she continued to bad mouth Harry. I told her I wouldn't listen to her bad mouth my most friend. Then she actually demanded that I choose my relationship with her over my friendship with Harry." Neville sighed again and shrugged his shoulders, "It wasn't a choice really. I could never turn my back on Harry."Hermione was holding back tears as she listened to his story. "I'm sorry Neville, I only knew that you two weren't together anymore, I didn't mean to bring up bad memories."Neville stood up and moved over closer to Hermione. "It's okay, I'm glad to be with you now."Hermione smiled back at him. She leaned against his arm as he sat on the arm of the sofa where she was. "The past couple of months have been very stressful, I don't know what I would have done without you."Neville grinned and ran his hand through her hair. "By the way, have you heard anything from Harry?"Hermione continued to relax with Neville's ministrations. "No, nothing since he left. He did tell me where he was going though, and he even invited me to join, but I just couldn't go."Neville frowned as he moved around to sit with her on the sofa. "Draco went with him, didn't he? You're still in love with Draco I presume."Hermione sat up as if she was given an electric shock. "I don't know if I ever truly was. To be honest Neville, I was definitely infatuated with him. I was attracted to him, and honestly, the way we broke up, or I broke up with him, or to be fair, I left him, was kind of harsh."Hermione became silent for a minute, and then she decided to explain things more to Neville. "His mother came back and she reminded me so much of all of the issues I had with his family, with the Death Eaters, with the scars, both physical and emotional, from the war. And it reminded me of our past. Draco was a right git towards me for 7 years, then all of a sudden I get all hot and bothered one summer when he is living with Harry and he claims to have reformed and everything?"Hermione stood up and started pacing around the apartment. "What the hell was I thinking? His aunt wanted to kill me after carving MUDBLOOD in my arm! His mother didn't do anything to stop it. And all he has to say for himself for that day was that he didn't confirm for the Death Eaters that they had actually captured Harry. He still attacked me with plenty of curses during our years at school. He called me mudblood and worse names for years. What kind of poor self esteem must I have if I would be so willing to jump in his arms just because I saw him in his underwear? Hell, he probably still looks down on me for being a muggle born. And then he tried to claim he didn't mean it all just by saying he saved my things from my house before the Death Eaters destroyed it. He still went with them to attack my parents and my home."She collapsed back onto the couch and she was in tears as Neville just held her as she cried. After a couple of minutes she calmed down and was holding Neville."I'm sorry you had to witness that," she said softly."No, it's okay," he reassured her."Now you probably think me a fool and want to leave after that," she added."No, actually, I see you as being as human as the rest of us," he said tenderly. "You usually come across as bing strong and independent and not needing anyone or anything. This just shows that you're not an emotionless encyclopaedia, that you need others just like everyone else does."Hermione relaxed into his armsAfter a few minutes of silently holding each other Neville did finally ask her another question."I am confused about one thing though," he began.Hermione raised an eyebrow as she pushed a stray lock of hair out of her face, "What is that?"Neville rubbed his chin for a moment before he asked, "With all of your animosity towards many of the Death Eaters and especially towards certain members of Draco's family, and his mother, how is it that she is your publicist?"Hermione shook her head and laughed. "Now that is perhaps the most unusual thing of it all. After my initial speech at the Wizengamot which is what apparently started my political career, which was not my intention, as you well know, she came to speak with me. As it turned out, she was there at the Wizengamot meeting and heard the whole thing."Neville was clearly surprised by that revelation. "Oh, did she actually apologise for anything she said to you or how she treated you?"Hermione laughed slightly at the question. "Narcissa Black? Get real, Neville. She would never do that and honestly I don't expect her to at this point and I am definitely not waiting on that. She is a Black and she was a Malfoy. I am sure she would think it would be beneath her, in fact I believe she already told me that it would be. However, the things I said resonated with her in some way. She actually supports the message I have, a reformed Ministry, a reformed magical Britain. Also, the bottom line is that her way back to personal prestige is to be seen associating herself with me. I don't think there is anything more to it than that."Neville relaxed a little, "So, no ulterior motive to get you back together with Draco?"Hermione shook her head, "Don't worry about Draco, Neville, love, he is in the past. You are my present, you are my future." She then leaned in and gave him a kiss on the cheek.Neville blushed slightly and then replied, "I get that, but does Narcissa understand that? Does Draco know that?"Hermione bit her lip briefly before she replied, "Honestly, I don't care, that's his problem, not mine and not yours. He left with Harry. I'm sure they probably have learned about us by now. It's not like Narcissa hasn't prevented any publicity about our relationship from being printed in the papers."Neville still seemed apprehensive, "That doesn't mean they've read the papers, wherever they are."Hermione argued that point, "Between Draco, Harry, Susan, Astoria, Ron and Catherine, I am sure that someone has been reading what is going on here. Even if they have no desire to return, I guarantee that they are at least paying attention to what is going on here."Neville raised an eyebrow in response to her comment.She noticed his questioning but silent response. "The Malfoy, Potter and Black seats are claimed in the Wizengamot, and they have had a house elf collecting any messages for the houses. Clearly someone is paying attention to the Wizengamot on some level."Neville nodded in understanding. "Have they assigned a proxy?""No, but there has not been a mandatory vote or hearing yet," she went to explain. "Neither has there apparently been one important enough yet for them to name one. I was wondering if you would be contacted by Harry or if you had already been contacted by him about that."Neville shook his head, "No, I haven't heard from Harry at all."Hermione thought about this situation a little more before she continues, "Well, there is a full Wizengamot meeting next month, and there will be votes on several issues related to proposals that I have given to the minister. This will be a very public vote as it will be addressing the first of the legislation proposed in response to my initial speech. I would hope that Harry would show for that vote. Or at least have a proxy for that hearing."~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~Draco and Harry were talking as they moved from the deck of their small sailboat down into the cabin as they cruised around the Caribbean. They had chosen to visit several of the nearby islands. The ladies were enjoying the view from the bow of the boat, the hired hands were sailing the boat and Draco and Harry sat down in the cabin enjoying a glass of rum.Harry spoke first as the two sat down in the quieter confines within the cabin, not having to deal with the wind whipping around them. "So, you did read about the proposed legislation?""Of course, Potter, your elf did bring all of the information," replied Draco as he swirled the ice in his drink before taking another sip. "Hermione has obviously been busy."Harry nodded, "I am sure she expects us both to show up for the vote next month."Draco tilted his head, "You're not going to go, are you?"Harry shook his head, "No, and I don't expect that you plan to attend either."Draco narrowed his eyes, "No, but I take it you have a plan."Harry smiled slightly, "Yes, but I still need to talk to the proposed proxy."Draco stiffened, "You're going to return to England and speak with Longbottom."Harry chuckled slightly, "No, that would be too obvious a choice. We need to make a statement. I have something planned, although it might be tricky. It will still require returning to England at least briefly to discuss things."Draco was surprised, but intrigued. He considered that Harry really could have fit in within Slytherin house. "Do you need me to join you?""Not initially, let me try on my own," he said looking down into his glass. Then he looked back at Draco, "but I'll contact you if you need to come back as well."~~~~…~~~~OOOoooOOO~~~…~~~The following week…Harry Potter arrived in England and quickly made his way to main office of Greengrass Imports. He kept his presence in magical Britain hidden by a hooded cloak and notice-me-not charms. He walked into the reception area and he knew that he did not have an appointment. The receptionist was surprised when he walked in as evidenced by her gasp.Harry spoke calmly, "Is Lord Greengrass in today?"The receptionist looked up at the hooded man, "Yes, he is, but he is quite busy.""I'm sure he is quite busy," stated Harry as he dropped the hood revealing who was there to speak with Lord Greengrass, "however I do have some important issues to discuss with the man."The witch started to get nervous. However, before she moved to tell her employer who was there to speak with him, Harry then added, "You can reassure him that I have a couple of propositions for him, and I would just like him to hear me out.""Very well, Lord Potter," she said before she stepped into the office and then a few minutes later she returned to the reception area. "He said you can have a seat and he will see you when he has the time."Harry wasn't surprised that an unannounced visit to see Lord Greengrass would not begin well. After waiting for over 30 minutes, Harry was finally called into Lord Greengrass' office. Harry was unsure of just what sort of reception he would have, particularly considering the rather abrasive encounters they have had previously.As Harry stepped into the office, Lord Greengrass nearly growled at him, "So, Lord Potter, you seem to have a reason to darken my doors yet again."Harry smiled thinly at the man seated across from him, as Lord Greengrass did not bother to stand nor did he even offer to shake his hand. Harry just took the seat across from the man."On our previous meetings you made it quite clear that you were concerned about your daughter Daphne's safety," began Harry. "It is quite apparent that your concerns were well founded. It was always my intention to protect my loved ones, and for my failures I must humbly apologise, although I know that cannot change what has happened."Greengrass raised an eyebrow, but his tone did not soften, "You came all the way back here from wherever it was that you ran off to just to apologise?""No, that is not the only reason," answered Harry. "While we may not have seen eye to eye as to my relationship with your daughter, you always spoke plainly with me. I also am aware that the upcoming Wizengamot session will require that those with seats be present to vote, or have their proxy there to vote in their stead. I have come to ask if you would be willing to not only represent House Greengrass, but in honour of your daughter, to represent House Black and also House Potter."Lord Greengrass was taken aback by the request. "You are a most unusual wizard, young one. You held no fear of the Dark Lord, or so it seemed. You seemed to hold no fear of a father-in-law, and you seem to scoff at tradition and custom."Harry waited a moment before he responded. "Sir, I was raised by magic hating muggles, so I grew up knowing nothing of tradition within this society. I didn't even know about the dark tosser until after my eleventh birthday. Prior to that my aunt and uncle had repeatedly told me that my parents were drunkards who died in a car crash. The world of magic was nearly overwhelming for me and by the time I was finishing my first year ay Hogwarts I was already facing off with Voldemort again. No one ever really taught me about the politics of this world until after the war was over, although I learned a little along the way from my run-ins with various members of the ministry. So, my experience in this magical world was not what many would have expected, and I tell you this not to make excuses but as a way of explanation. You area man who knows this society and knows our world better than I do."Lord Greengrass was clearly surprised to hear this revelation from the young man in front of him. "And you would simply trust me to vote for you, for both of your houses?"Harry nodded, "Yes, sir, I would, out of respect for your daughter."Lord Greengrass visibly relaxed in front of Harry, clearly overwhelmed by the gesture. "Well, then, I would have to make the proper arrangements then. You are aware of the upcoming legislation?"Harry acknowledged that he was aware of it. "I have been following some of the debates and the controversy. Hermione Granger is a close friend of mine, I have been impressed with the message she has been able to convey to the people over the past month or so."Lord Greengrass nodded in response. "I must admit, her words have some merit, and she does have some influential backers from traditional light side and traditional grey to dark aligned families as well."Harry smiled slightly at his comments, "That is almost surprising, but considering that she is one of the smartest witches to come along in ages, I am not necessarily surprised."Lord Greengrass nodded and then asked, "Is that all you have for me today?"Harry steeled himself to prepare for the next part. "Well, actually, no, I do have one more request."Lord Greengrass tensed slightly again, "Feeling bold today, are we? And what might that be?"Harry paused slightly before he then began to explain, "Draco Malfoy, who has accompanied me on my journeys, would also like to request that you sit as his proxy for House Malfoy."Lord Greengrass was stunned at this added request. "And to what do I owe this potentially dubious honour?"Harry replied simply, "Perhaps nothing more than his knowing that I would be travelling here to meet with you."Lord Greengrass was growing agitated, "Would it have anything to do with my younger daughter's disappearance from school? I do understand that she is currently of age. And I have received notification from her that she willingly left school on her own. Would you happen to know of Astoria's whereabouts?"Harry looked away for a moment and then swallowed hard. "Astoria did ask me if she could join us on our trip. I told her that I thought it was not a good idea, that she was too young, that she needed to finish her school. She insisted that she would be of age, and then she showed up after we had begun our travel. We did not ask her to join us, we have not forced her to stay, we have encouraged her to speak with you, sir, but as you are well aware, she is of age.""That may explain even more of Mr. Malfoy's motivation," added Lord Greengrass with a sigh. "You can tell Malfoy that I will vote as his proxy, and I will vote his seats the same as I vote mine and as I vote yours. If he has a problem with that, that will only be his problem, not mine.""Understood, Lord Greengrass," said Harry. "As we will not be present, I can ask nothing more. We will complete all of the required paperwork for establishing the proxies."As Harry stood up to leave, Lord Greengrass spoke to him once more. "If Daphne had a will, then I presume the goblins had a copy of it, and I presume she left everything to you, as we never heard anything about it. If you have any questions, then you may need to check with the goblins. I know she had her own vault. Her mother and I were never notified about any issues with it, but I just assumed that it would have gone to you at this time."Harry stood still and silent as he considered his words. "Thank you for that information sir." Harry then nodded and bowed his head before leaving.As he stepped out of the office and into the London streets he made sure to cover his head with the hood of his cloak. He then made his way over to Diagon Alley and then to Gringotts.Harry entered Gringotts and felt his Black Family ring warm up slightly. He thought that this was odd, but he quickly dismissed the sensation. He made his way to a teller and asked to speak with a goblin in charge of the Black Family vaults. All of the tellers immediately stopped working and the lobby became silent. The senior teller came over to see what the problem was and then he noticed that Lord Potter-Black had arrived."My apologies, Lord Potter-Black," he said, "but we were not expecting you. Ragnok is currently indisposed."Harry bowed slightly to the teller, "That is understood as my visit here was not planned. Could I meet with someone who has a knowledge of the Black family accounts? I only have a few minor questions, that is all.""We can have someone meet with you in five minutes in one of the side conference rooms," stated the senior teller.Harry was then lead to a small conference room and shortly was joined by a goblin who was tentative at first. "Greetings, Lord Potter-Black," he spoke, "I am Darktooth, and I have been appointed to meet with you today. I have been an assistant manager for your accounts. We were not aware you would be coming in so your account manager apologises. What can I do for you this day?""I have a couple of questions, and I think you should be able to answer them easily enough," Harry began. "First of all, I did not initially plan this trip, but I ended up having a few questions. The Lady Black, did she have her own personal vault? Did she have a will, and if so, has it been read yet?"The goblin was quite confused and then he looked at Harry and tried to answer his questions as simply as possible. "The Lady Black does indeed have a personal vault as well as access to the main Black vaults as you have arranged previously. I do believe that she has a will, but we have no reason to believe that it has ever been read. Her vault is active."Harry considered Darktooth's answer and rubbed forehead for a moment. "Excuse me, why would her vault still be active."Darktooth tilted his head slightly and stared at Harry. "Lord Potter-Black, we heard the rumours of what occurred at your estate a few months ago. After investigating the damage that occurred to your property's wards we learned that the Lady Black reportedly had died and that she had been placed in a tomb or mausoleum that had been built at the Greengrass Estate. However, her vault has continued to remain active."Harry nodded as he tried to understand just what the goblin was explaining to him. Then he looked up at the assistant manager for his accounts and asked about his property. "Has the estate been repaired? Have the wards been updated?""The goblin nation has upgraded the wards after we failed to provide adequate protection to you and your family," replied the goblin. "The ward stones will be much harder to find and they should prove to be nigh impossible to bring down by mere wizards. You and your family and any who had previously been granted admittance by yourself will currently have permission to enter the property. AT this time, no one else can enter the property."Harry then thanked the assistant manager once again and left the conference room. As he left Gringotts, he was busy contemplating what he was told. He considered travelling to the Greengrass Estate, but he already felt he intruded enough by heading to the offices of Greengrass Imports earlier during the day and he felt he would be most unwelcome with a second unannounced visit. Shaking his head he decided to apparate to his estate and the site of the last battle in which he had fought.Harry arrived in the middle of the gardens where they had taken down Yaxley. He looked around and he could tell that the goblins had restored the grounds to what they had been before all of the magical fighting had taken place and the gardens appeared immaculate. As he looked around he realised that not only had the grounds been restored but clearly there was evidence that they had been receiving regular maintenance. Harry considered that the assistant manager had not mentioned anything about upkeep of the property but only restoration due to the failure of the wards.Harry then made his way to the manor house and entered through the doors from the patio. The house felt warm. He turned and walked into the kitchen and his jaw dropped."Hello Harry, I was wondering when you would finally show up."





--------




AN: Getting closer to the end. Surprised by the general lack of reviews over the last several chapters compared to the beginning of the story, but then again, one can never predict that sort of thing. Probably one final chapter to go after this one.Harry stared in disbelief at Daphne, who appeared to be perfectly healthy standing there in the kitchen of his estate."Oh my God, Daphne, it's really you!" he exclaimed.Daphne smiled at him. "A bit surprised, I supposed," she said softly, standing by the counter, waiting to see what further reaction he would have.After staring at her for a minute with his mouth agape he shook his head and then rushed across the room and reached out to her. Tentatively touching her with his fingers."I am real, and I don't bite, Harry," she said calmly. "We were married before the attack happened, or don't you remember that?"Harry smiled bashfully, "Of course I remember that," he added and then he grabbed her and pulled her into a tight hug.After a minute she squeaked out, "Can't breathe, Harry."Harry let her go slightly, easing up on his grip but not releasing her completely. "But I saw you collapse from that curse. You were dead. Your father took your body away to be buried."Daphne looked intently into his emerald eyes. "Now, now, love, you should know better than to trust in such simple observation." She kissed him on his lips briefly before she continued. "Yes, I am real, and no this isn't dark magic.""Then what happened? How did this happen? You're here, you're alive, and I need to understand," he said all at once.Daphne removed his hands from around her and led him into the lounge. "We'll get to that," she said. After they sat down together on the sofa she tucked her feet up underneath her and leaned against Harry. "You still smell the same, although I think I can smell salt water on you, have you been to the sea?""We've been staying at a place I now have down in the Caribbean," Harry explained, "but before I get into that, you must tell me more about what happened to you."Daphne waved her hand around the house and then pointed upstairs to where the library was installed. "You did, or your family, or more accurately, our family happened. I started to study the Black Family magic once I had been accepted as Lady Black. There were some very dark spells in there, but also some very old spells, some that weren't dark, but may have been looked that way by others, such as Dumbledore or even Hermione. One such spell I used was for protection. It was a shield spell just in case something happened such as the attack that happened that day. It caused a temporary stasis to come over me. It appeared to others as though I had died. Apparently it even took some of your magic, though our connection through our rings to help heal me. The spell takes a while to complete, though, as it absorbs ambient magic to heal the body and dissipate the damage from what was shielded unless there is someone who knows how to speed up the process. Once my father took my body and placed it in the mausoleum at the Greengrass Estate, everyone thought I had died. The spell leached magic off of the Estate there and apparently even from some of the house elves. It took many weeks before I was recovered enough to be able to wake up, and then I had to have a house elf transport me back here."Harry was amazed to here her explanation. "I suppose it pays to study the family magics then," he summarised."Yes, it does," added Daphne, "but no one ever taught you the importance of such things yet."Harry frowned at that statement, "No, no one ever really explained much about family magics to me."There was an awkward silence between the two of them that culminated in Daphne giving Harry another big hug. "Thank you for coming back, Harry. But then, you haven't yet told me why you showed up here, alone.""About that," began Harry, "I only came back briefly to ask a very important favour. So much has been going on since we defeated Yaxley when he attacked us here those months ago. Draco and I both had to testify in front of the DMLE about events from the end of the war right up until the battle here at the estate. They even essentially put Draco on trial for his activities while he was at school. Once that was all said and done, we left. We took a cruise to the Caribbean and then Susan and I bought a place on one of the islands. We have been staying there ever since.""That sounds like what you have been talking about doing," commented Daphne, smiling at Harry. "Has it been what you expected it to be?""The only thing that has been a problem is that I have been missing my Lady Black," replied Harry."You're too sweet," smiled Daphne. "But back to why you came back here. What brought you back to England, and where is Sue?""There is important legislation at the Wizengamot coming up," explained Harry, "requiring all members to be present to vote, or to have their proxies present to vote in their stead. I needed to make sure that I had a proxy in place for both House Potter and House Black. So I just concluded negotiations for those arrangements earlier, and then I wanted to look into things about your will."Daphne shook here head, "And then you find out there was no activated will. And I suppose my father never questioned that."Harry shrugged his shoulders, "He figured you left everything to me, so he wasn't notified of anything. So, in looking into your will, or rather lack thereof, I also learned that your private vault was still active, and then I decided to come here."Daphne stared at him for a moment. "Hold on there a moment, I think I might have misunderstood something you just said."Harry considered his words for a moment and gave her a puzzled look. "What did I say wrong?"Daphne narrowed her gaze at him, "Why were you speaking to my father? You just stated that you spoke to my father about my will. I do recall quite vividly that the two of you got along about as well as Weasley and the ferret did back in the day, so what ever caused you to end up speaking to my father?"Harry blushed sightly, "I figured that I had no real reason to keep him hating me. I know he felt that it was dangerous for you to be near me, and that the events that occurred with the attack by Yaxley and his men only proved him right, that I needed to make amends of sorts."Daphne's jaw dropped, "Don't tell me, you didn't ask him, did you?"Harry just stared at Daphne, surprised at her powers of deduction."You actually went and spoke to my father about being your proxy at the Wizengamot?" Daphne shook her head in disbelief. "You're a braver man than I ever gave you credit. Tell me, what happened. How many times did he threaten you? What did he ask for in return?""He demanded nothing in return," answered Harry.Daphne stared at Harry for a moment in silence. "Okay, something isn't adding up here, Potter. You must not have told me everything. You came back from the Caribbean to ask my father to be your proxy and he simply said yes. What have you left out?"Harry shifted a little underneath her on the sofa as she was leaning on him heavily. "When I showed up at his office, unannounced mind you, he did make me wait for a while before he even agreed to meet with me."She prodded him to continue, "And then?""I explained to him that I needed someone to be the proxy for the House of Potter and the House of Black," continued Harry. "I also added that with the upcoming votes I wasn't going to tell him how he should vote. Have you been paying attention to the current news and politics?""What? Do you mean Granger's rise to power within the ministry and her position of proposing all of this legislation? What do you think I've been doing here, wasting away? Yes, Harry, I am well aware of the happenings in the magical world, at least here in Britain," she said. "It is you who have, how do the muggles say it, fallen off the radar."Harry gave her a lopsided smile in response to her comment, "Fair enough, but it seems your father supports many of the things that Hermione has been speaking out about, so he readily agreed."Daphne narrowed her eyes again, "I said tell me the whole story."Harry rolled his eyes in response. "How do you do that? Fine. Before I left I then asked him if he would also be the Malfoy proxy. And he eventually agreed."Daphne raised an eyebrow, "Eventually? What do you mean eventually? That comment clearly needs more explanation.""Your father asked pointed questions about your sister, Astoria," began Harry. "He asked about where she was, and who she was with."Daphne's eyes glared at Harry. "She left school? Why haven't I heard anything about this?""It wasn't in the papers, because when she left school is wasn't discovered until after her seventeenth birthday," said Harry with a sigh. "She heard about our trip and insisted on joining us. She has been with Draco. He initially was trying to push her away, but she has been, let us say, quite persistent."Daphne wasn't sure if she should be happy or angry. She gave Harry a questioning look.Harry turned his head from side to side. "I think she has been good for him. Draco was very hurt when Hermione left him. I found her just before we had the inquiry, after the attack at the estate. I offered for her to join us, to come back. She clearly made her choice. She has known how to get in touch with me ever since. I haven't heard anything since that day I spoke with her. If she wanted to reconcile with Draco, she could have by now. And then…"His voice trailed off and Daphne picked up his train of thought."And then she goes and hires his mother as her publicist," she continued, "the very person she blamed for splitting up her relationship with Draco. I bet that must have hit him hard."Harry simply nodded in reply.After a moment of silent staring into each others eyes, Harry finally spoke up again. "So, now I've found you again, you can come back with me to the new place in the Caribbean, leave this estate behind." His voice was full of hope and excitement.Daphne frowned, "No, Harry, I can't do that."Harry tried to pull away from her, which was difficult as she was leaning on top of him still. "But why not? You two seemed to be getting along fine, you and Sue. I thought we could all make things work."Daphne stiffened slightly at his remark. "You're not listening, Harry. I said I can't, not that I won't. It has to do with the magic. I said before that I never really wanted to leave Britain, but the magic used to bring me back has anchored me here. I literally can't leave. And honestly, I like the idea of people not knowing that I survived, as everyone seems to believe I died that day."Harry tilted his head a little as he considered her words, "Well, the Aurors did see your father carry your lifeless body away after the battle was over. That kind of clued a lot of people into the fact that were most likely dead. And there was all of the publicity about the defeat of the Shadow Lord after that and the fact that one of my betrothed had died in the battle, as I had not revealed to anyone that we were already married."Daphne kissed him on the cheek, "Aren't you sweet, keeping our private lives private, even when you thought I had died.""So now what do I do? I'm heading back to the island tomorrow," commented Harry.Daphne smiled at Harry, "You spend the night with me, your wife. You return to the island tomorrow, to Susan, your other wife, Lady Potter. We'll keep my existence here a secret, just between us."Harry rubbed his forehead as he considered Daphne's plan. "But why? Wouldn't that be like cheating on her? Like lying to her?"Daphne sighed, "If we had all been together, would we not have had some secrets, some private things between us? Susan and you would have had some special things that you didn't share with me, and you and I would have had some special things that we didn't share with her, or so I would have presumed.""I guess so," agreed Harry, trying to follow Daphne's explanation."The rest of the magical world thinks you closed down this estate," she continued. "The goblins added stronger wards. You know that I am here, you can come see me when you want to. Through our rings, I can let you know if I need you."Harry raised an eyebrow, "We can do that?"She shook her head, "Yes Harry, now quit interrupting, and obviously I'll need to teach you about your own family rings before you leave. You can spend your time with Susan, and you two will have all of the time you need and want together. And I'll have time to study magic like I always wanted to and not be bothered by others.""But you'll be staying here," worried Harry, "locked into this estate.""I do not have to stay on this estate," she said with a laugh, "I just can't leave the British Isles. I can disillusion myself and travel anywhere else. And if someone sees through any enchantment I have on, what would they see? A woman whom they were never expecting to see, someone they aren't even looking for so they still wouldn't recognise me."Harry held her tight and then looked her straight in the eyes and asked, "This is really what you want?""Yes, Harry, this is what I want," she said softly. "As long as I know I will at least get an occasional visit from you. You could even arrange for an annual visit, such as the anniversary of the day I supposedly died, to come here by yourself, to mourn. No one would question your travelling here, not even Susan.""You do have a point," agreed Harry.Daphne stood up and pulled Harry off of the sofa with her. She took him by the hand and started leading him out of the room."Now where are we going?" he asked."Upstairs," shed said coyly. "Dinner can wait, but I haven't been my husband for way too long." She continued to lead him away by the hand.— — — —The next morning Harry finished a delightful breakfast. "I never knew you ere such a good cook, Daphne."She laughed at him, "I don't always cook, I do have house elves around from time to time, but out of necessity I have had to learn."He smiled at her as she walked back across the kitchen, wearing only one of his older shirts. "So, do you often raid my old wardrobe?"She laughed again, "Hey, you left a lot of your clothes behind when you left here. I guess you didn't think you would need some of these when you headed to warmer climes."He laughed back at her, "It does seem to look better on you, love.""Flattery gets you everywhere with me, Harry," she replied with a wink.The banter continued for a little longer as they finished breakfast. Daphne sat down next to Harry and leaned against his shoulder. "Now, you do remember what I said about using the house rings we have?""Yes, Daphne," he replied dutifully."I will miss you, love," she added. "And I do miss everyone else, but like I said, I want this to be our secret. Besides, people like Granger will accuse me of practicing dark magic. I don't need the hassle of the ministry looking into this."Harry held her in a hug, "You know I'll miss you and I wish this never happened, that we could have all been together."Daphne kissed him on the lips, "I know Harry, but we can't undo what has happened.""We can all move back to England," he offered."You don't really want to do that," she said as she caressed his cheek. "You are happy where you are at right now. You don't need to uproot everyone on my account. When the time is right, you will come back, and you've already made a public declaration you won't return to live in this estate.""You're right of course," he agreed with her."You best be going, you need to make your international portkey soon," she said.Harry noted the tear in her eye. "Now my Ice Queen starts to get emotional on me.""Tell anyone and I'll hex your bits off," she quipped.Harry looked over towards the fire place, "Is the floo working at all?""Yes, it is just highly warded," she answered. "I think probably only you and I can get through at this time.""Isn't that convenient," he mused.They walked together over towards the fireplace and then he gave her one last searing kiss before he said goodbye. With one final embrace, Harry stepped through the floo to the international terminal for portkey travel.Harry looked at her as he said, "So, what do I tell the others?""You don't need to tell them anything, as I said before, this can be our secret.""What about your sister?"Daphne smiled as she stated, "I already answered that, didn't I?"Harry hesitated before leaving.Daphne hugged him tight, then reiterated what she said. "Have a life with Susan, don't worry about me, I will be fine. Come and find me from time to time."Harry furrowed his brow, "You won't be bored, or lonely?"Daphne laughed a little at his question. "Bored? I have the Black Family library to study. Hermione already is jealous, and perhaps angry with me for that. I'll spend the rest of my life studying magic, learning magic, exploring this family magic."Harry looked a little worried, "Dark magic?"Daphne leaned her head to one side, "No, it's your family, no our family magic. People assumed it was dark because of the reputation of the Black family. You are changing that reputation going forward. I've been fascinating with studying magic since I first started to learn runes and arithmancy. Now I can learn even more arcane and ancient magics. And not be interrupted. And not have Hermione telling me I shouldn't be doing this or that."Harry was still worried about her. "But won't you be lonely here?"Daphne shook her head, "No, not really. You'll be by occasionally, I'm sure of that. I know you well enough. And I already learned my lesson about venturing out into the muggle world. And don't worry about my looking for attention from any other wizard Harry, the Black Family magic wouldn't let me even if I wanted to, but I am content to only have you, as often as that will happen."Harry shook his head, amazed at the woman who stood before him. "But I still don't know what to tell everyone.""Tell them that your trip was a success," explained Daphne. "That you arranged for my father to be your proxy and for him to be Draco's proxy. That is why you came, and you said that he did agree."Harry stammered in reply, "Well, yes, that is. But…"Daphne smirked at him, "Scrying, Harry, I can keep an eye on you. Or would you rather I not?"Harry was feeling a little uncomfortable.Daphne sighed, "Fine, I promise not to look in when you and Susan are being intimate, is that fair enough?"Harry felt a little relieved, "That's at least fair enough."Daphne smiled him and gave him another hug. "In the long run, I think this will be for the best, having you only need to worry about Sue. It will be simpler and far less confusing."Harry smiled at her as he said, "Have I told you how much I love you Daphne?"She smiled back at him, "Yes, but you don't need to stop, Harry."They embraced again, then she added, "You really need to get going, or some people may start to worry."Back in the Caribbean - Harry lets Draco know that Lord Greengrass will be their proxyHarry stepped through the floo into his mansion on the small Caribbean Island. He slid across the wood floor slightly as he tried to stop himself from falling on his face. While he managed to not land on his face he imagined that his actions of his flailing arms would have looked completely ridiculous to any observers. Once he stopped his motion he quickly realised that he, thankfully, did not have an audience for his less than grand entrance. After a short tour of the house he learned that he was the only one in the large building and that his wife and friends were down by the shore at the small cabana enjoying the lovely morning. Harry muttered about the hassles of gong through magical customs and how that delayed his travel, something which he thought was ridiculous within the magical world.Harry then made his way to his bedroom and changed into more appropriate attire for joining his friends at the beach. He then made his way to the cabana. He cast a silencing charm on his feet so that they wouldn't hear him approaching. As he came up from behind Susan where she was relaxing on a lounge chair, he placed a gentle kiss on top of her head.Susan pulled off her sunglasses as she smiled up at him, "I didn't hear you arrive.""That was my plan, my love," he replied with a large smile."So how was your trip?" asked Ron."It went as well as could be expected," answered Harry.Draco looked up from where he was sitting with Astoria, "So, old man Greengrass didn't try to hex you and force you into some indentured servitude when you asked him our favour?"Harry hesitated before he replied to Draco's comments. "Lord Greengrass initially had no interest in meeting with me, that was clear. He eventually did hear me out and he did eventually agree to be the proxy for House Potter, House Black and even House Malfoy."Draco nodded, "So, you managed to get him to agree with everything without him learning all of the details. That's a relief."Harry wagged his eyebrows, "I never said that, Draco. He insisted that I answer certain questions before he agreed to anything. Some of those questions included if I knew of the whereabouts of his daughter Astoria."Draco hid his face in his hands as he muttered, "I am so screwed, aren't I?"Astoria put her arm around Draco's back and then looked up at Harry, hoping for more of an explanation.Harry looked at Astoria as he further explained her father's comments, "I can tell you that he wasn't pleased with your disappearing act, but by the time he discovered that you were gone he knew there was nothing he could do about it legally. Also the letter explaining that you left on your own free will was an important touch by the way."Draco looked up at Harry, "So, I'm not necessarily a dead man if and when I return to England?""No, I don't think so," smiled Harry. "I made it clear that we both requested Astoria not to join us but she came anyway." Harry then turned to Astoria, "Your father knows you quite well, I gather."Astoria blushed a little, "Both of his daughters have been known to be quite headstrong."Harry didn't say anything in response.Astoria covered her mouth when she realised what she had said and then she apologised, "I'm sorry, Harry, I didn't mean to make you feel uncomfortable and bring up sad memories."Susan reached out and took Harry's hand and squeezed it in an effort to comfort him. He let her do that as he spoke to Astoria, "No, it's quite all right, Astoria, I know you didn't mean anything by it and I do see those similarities between the two of you. And I'm okay with remembering Daphne fondly."Catherine then spoke up in an effort to change the mood of the conversation, "Now that we're done discussing Harry's business trip, how about we talk about what else we want to do for fun? Like where else do people want to travel?"Ron spoke up first, "I like going to the Magic Kingdom."Catherine punched him in the arm, "We've been there enough for a while, Red, you can wait until they open up some new rides next year. See something new. You really need to expand your horizons, but that doesn't mean you're allowed to look at other witches."Ron rubbed his shoulder where she had punched him. "Fine, I'll try to wait until next year," he pouted.Susan spoke up next, "I was reading about taking a cruise to Alaska, but the best time to go is in June."Astoria suggested travelling to South America, "I hear it's warmer this time of year."Harry turned to Draco, "So, Malfoy, is there anything that you are interested in doing, or do you want the ladies to choose for us?"Draco sat back in the chair he was sitting in and stared out over the sea, his eyes hidden fairly well by his dark sunglasses. He then turned back to Harry as he said, "Well, Potter, I've always had an interest in going on a safari to Africa. Don't tell any purebloods about this, though, because they would think it would be such a muggle thing to do."The others all laughed at his comments.Draco protested their laughing at him. "What? Going on safari doesn't sound exciting to any of you lot?""No, the idea of Draco Malfoy wanting to go on a muggle safari sounds hilarious to us," answered Astoria for all of them.Draco just shook his head in disgust at their antics at his expense. "Prats," he muttered, "at least I'm not all crazy over the muggle amusement park like some people."Astoria leaned over and gave him a kiss on his cheek. "Don't try and fool us, we know how much fun you had both on the Matterhorn and on the other rides!"Susan chimed in, "And don't worry, we won't tell anyone!"Draco huffed again and folded his arms across his chest as he blew his hair out if his face.— — —The next day a large owl arrived carrying a package. Harry opened it and announced to the others that it was paperwork from Lord Greengrass to finalise the proxies for House Potter, House Black and House Malfoy.They decided to work on getting it signed right away and forward it on to Andromeda for her review to make sure everything was in place before the planned vote that was coming up in just a few weeks. The message from Lord Greengrass indicated that no formal announcement needed to be made ahead of time about the proxies as long as the proper documentation was in hand. He would be able to make a claim for the proxies at the Wizengamot meeting in time for the vote when the roll was called and he also indicated that this might be more in line with what both Harry and Draco would want as it would be appearing that they were abdicating their seats. Failure to show or have a designated proxy at a mandatory Wizengamot meeting could result in losing one's seat.After reading Lord Greengrass' plan, Harry had to laugh out loud, "Was he part of the Marauders at school and we never knew it?"Astoria raised an eyebrow, "You mean the famous pranksters from the seventies? I doubt it, but I heard stories about them. But my father, despite his sternness, is a true Slytherin in that he loves to be secretive and work behind the scenes. Just having the opportunity to surprise the rest of the Wizengamot like this is probably reason enough for him to have agreed to do this, even if he really dislikes you, Harry."Harry turned and looked at Astoria. "So it wasn't just my good looks and my natural charm then that convinced him," he stated quite sarcastically."No," she smiled back, sensing Harry's underlying good natured feeling about this, "but whether he sees this as a prank or as just a way to pull off something that no one would ever expect, considering the very public and vocal antagonism you two had shared previously is enough to give him some sort of perverse pleasure in representing both of your houses and Draco's as well."Ron had an uneasy look on his face, "But what if he votes against the way you would have voted?"Harry shrugged his shoulders, "There isn't anything I can do about that if he does. First of all, I told him to vote how he feels he should, that I would place no restrictions on how he could cast those votes. That did make it easier for him to accept the positions. Second, when we discussed the actual legislation proposed by Hermione, he indicated that he actually supported it. Either he was lying to me to tell me what I wanted to hear, which would be highly unusual for him, considering our past relationship, or he actually means what he said.""But he's a Slytherin," commented Ron.His comment earned him a slap to his face from Catherine. "I've warned you Red," she said with slight bitterness in her tone, "don't go there. You've been doing well for so long, you've learned to trust me, dare I even say love me. You've even learned to tolerate Malfoy here, and to an even greater extent cute little Astoria. Don't tell me I have to start training you all over again."Ron blushed and looked down as he reached out and lightly grasped Catherine's hand. "Sorry, Cat, I guess old ideas are hard to get rid of."She then turned and gave him a kiss on his cheek, "I know love," she added tenderly. "Now, Red, just don't let it happen again."He looked up and smiled at her as she pulled him into a hug. The others just stared at the byplay in front of them, amazed at how she dealt with Ron."He's just a big softy," she purred as she ran a hand through his hair.Astoria finally spoke up, "Perhaps, but I still don't get it, why you actually hooked up with him in the first place."Ron stiffened at the remark and turned tentatively to face Catherine.Catherine looked briefly at Ron and flashed him a smile then she turned back to the others. "Don't you guys know how smart and resourceful he is? He can be quite determined when he wants to be. He figured out who the Shadow Lord was before the rest of you did, then he tracked him to my family's old manor. He escaped from aurors who wanted to bring him in for questioning. All of this on his own, willing to hunt down a man who would probably have killed him in an instant."Ron frowned again."Relax honey," she said with a smile as she patted him on the knee, "it's true, he may not have been as powerful magically as Harry, but he would have taken you out quickly. But that's not important, what IS important is that you weren't about to back down, Red. You went searching for him, against all odds, and you were smart enough to figure this all out on your own. And you stood up to me when I effectively challenged you. Besides, I thought you were cute. And more important, you had the balls to piss off and escape from those Aurors. That really got my attention," she added with a kiss to his cheek.Ron smiled again at her.Astoria cooed, "Oh, that's so romantic.""That's twisted is what that is," added Draco.Harry shook his head as he laughed slightly, "Well, they did help us find the Shadow Lord and Astoria." He turned and faced Draco, "And by now I would think you would be at least a little grateful for that fact."Draco tried to hide his blush and grumbled, "Who would ever think that I would have something to be thankful to the Weasel for?"Ron retorted quickly, "Who would think that I could have a civil relationship with the Ferret?""Enough with the skinny little mammalian predator names," snapped Catherine. "You do realise that weasels and ferrets are related animals, don't you?""What are you talking about?" asked both of them at the same."Animal classification," stated Catherine, "the muggle scientific zoologic way of categorising animals.""And you know about this why?" demanded Draco."Some of us actually paid attention to the world around us as we were growing up, dearest Draco," snipped Catherine. "Learning about those who actually outnumber us more than 10,000 to 1 might be a good idea."Ron gulped at that statement. He turned a little pale as he faced Catherine, "There are really that many more muggles than us?"Catherine sighed a little as she turned to face her boyfriend, "Yes, Red, there really are. That is one of the reasons why this whole blood purity idea is stupid. Magic is SO rare we need to accept everyone with magic. They need to learn about our ways, our culture, not be treated as strangers to the point they want to leave."Draco was simply shaking his head as he considered the enormity of the number and then he looked up at Catherine, "How can the number be that big?""It's quite simple," she stated calmly, "they have many towns and many cities that have no magical people at all. Towns and cities you and I and our friends have never been to. We have only a handful of villages with more than a few magicals living in them. After Hogsmeade and Goodrich Hollow, which itself isn't even all magical, there aren't many big concentrations of magical communities anywhere in Britain. We're all spread out. Considering that travel is easy for us, that's not a problem. But when you consider that people like Voldemort who actually planned to eventually attack the muggles, such a plan would ultimately fail, just to their sheer numbers."Ron scoffed at that idea, "How could even thousands of muggles survive attacks from the Death Eaters using the killing curse and other such dangerous attacks?""Muggle weapons of war can cause incredible amounts of damage," commented Harry. "What they had at the end of World War II, when Grindelwald was working with Hitler, is nothing like what they have now. They could wipe out all wizards and witches if they knew about is before we knew it if given a chance and the motivation.""That sounds like plenty of reason to support the Statutes of Secrecy," commented Catherine."Can we move on to cheerier subjects now," added Astoria, "this is starting to creep me out."Susan smiled at her, "Sure, like where do we want to travel next? Australia or Africa?"Ron shivered slightly, "I vote against Australia. I hear they have nasty spiders, poisonous snakes and other dangerous creatures."Catherine pulled him into a hug, "That's okay, Red, I'll keep you safe wherever we go."Draco looked at Harry and quietly stated, "Whipped."— — —Several days later Harry received a letter from Andromeda Tonks. She had reviewed all of the documentation from Harry and from Draco. She didn't find anything wrong with their plans for their proxies and she had forwarded the approved documents on to Lord Greengrass so he would have the proper attestations for the Wizengamot hearing.Several weeks later — at the WizengamotAmos Diggory stood up at the front of the chambers and banged his gavel four times to draw attention to himself and signify the beginning of the session. "As you all know, this is an important session which we are about to begin and we have made it clear that all members are required to be present or have a proxy present in their stead. Any member who is either not here or who failed to make such preparations will find their seat on the Wizengamot forfeit."As he said this, several members of the august body looked around greedily, hoping to take over certain seats that clearly remained vacant. Whispers began to be heard throughout the chamber.The Chief Warlock once again banged his gavel four times to get everyone to settle down. "Now, as we have not heard of any motions for proxies from several houses," he began, only to be interrupted by Lord Greengrass.Cyrus Greengrass was a large man and just by standing up he drew attention to himself. "Excuse me, Chief Warlock," he stated loudly and clearly, but I have with me the documentation to claim the proxy votes for several houses."There was now grumbling from several members from around the chamber. Amos Diggory was clearly irritated to have been interrupted. "Which houses do you claim proxy for, Lord Greengrass?"Lord Greengrass cleared his throat and walked forward and handed the aide a series of folders. Then he stated loud and clear, "I claim proxy for House Potter, House Black and House Malfoy!"His announcement brought forth loud gasps and even some protests from various wizards around the room. Various cries of 'unfair', 'I protest' and even 'outrageous' could be heard above the clamouring.Diggory grasped the folders and quickly perused the documents inside. After a few moments he banged his gavel four more times to try and call everyone to order once again. "It seems that everything here is quite in order, Lord Greengrass. The Wizengamot will recognise Lord Greengrass as the proxy for all votes for House Potter, House Black, and House Malfoy. All other previously established proxies are currently recognised. Are there any houses that are not present that have a seat and do not have a proxy listed?"A voice from the back spoke up and stated, "House Yaxley is not in attendance, and there is no proxy, sir.""Are their any claims for the seat?" questioned the Chief Warlock.The chamber was silent for a moment, until Lord Parkinson stood up. "I seek to claim the seat."There was an eerie silence in the chamber for a moment as almost everyone knew that the tow had connections through their work as Death Eaters, even if it wasn't spoken about publicly.The Chief Warlock then asked, "And what is the basis of your claiming the seat?"Parkinson stood as tall as he could, despite his portly frame, "I base it on my many years of friendship and business association with the late Lord Yaxley." He tried to sound proud of his relationship with the man who everyone knew had been sent to Azkaban for his role as the Shadow Lord and as a Death Eater and his many crimes during the recent war."You speak boldly for one who has only been recently released from Azkaban," spoke Lord Greengrass as he stood up. He then turned and faced Amos Diggory. "Chief Warlock, I challenge that claim, and on behalf of Lord Potter, whose proxy I hold, I stake a greater claim, that of one by conquest. Yaxley was proven to be terrorising our people under the pseudonym of The Shadow Lord. He was convicted and sent to Azkaban. One of the most heinous of his crimes was an all out attack on Lord Potter-Black's estate, which resulted in the deaths of many of his followers as well as my daughter, the Lady Black. It was the Lord Potter-Black himself who defeated Yaxley in conquest. It is by this justification that he should claim this seat."The entire Wizengamot fell silent upon hearing Lord Greengrass' words. Everyone had previously known of his outspoken dislike for Harry Potter, but now he was speaking as though he fully supported him. Many were confused, but only a few had any understanding of the real reasons why he was taking this stance and making this very public points.After a few moments of silent contemplation and then another minute of conferring with an advisor, Amos Diggory stood up and announced, "The claim of the seats by conquest has the greater merit. The seats are granted to Lord Potter-Black and his proxy to hold for now or to be dispersed as he sees fit."There was again much murmuring among the wizards which caused Diggory to bang his gavel repeatedly. "Now that we are done with the introductory business, I call this meeting to order. The first item of business is the bills before us, which will be presented by the Mister for Magic, Kingsley Shacklebolt and his aide, Miss Hermione Granger.The two then presented four separate bills regarding muggleborn rights, magical creature rights, magical education, and ministry hiring policies. The bills were then debated and discussed. The debates were heated. The arguments were loud and emotional at times. Finally, by the end of the day, votes were called on the four separate bills.In the end, two of the bills passed, but two of them were defeated. The proposed new laws for magical creatures and for ministry hiring policies were defeated, whereas new protections for muggleborns and new policies for balancing magical education for muggleborn and multigenerational magic users.Later that eveningHermione was sitting at a pub, drinking a beer, and commiserating with Neville. "I don't know what more I could have done to get those other bills passed."Neville was trying to console her, "Now, Hermione, you did wonderful out there. People in the Wizengamot were listening to you today. You're making progress. They didn't dismiss you on the basis of your being a muggleborn. Even as recently as ten years ago there is no way you would have even been able to speak in front of the Wizengamot or even get those bills to be heard."Hermione moaned into her mug, "But why do I still feel like a failure?"Narcissa slid into the booth where they were sitting, join gin them without an invitation. Neville narrowed his eyes at her, but she was smiling broadly.Hermione frowned both at Narcissa's intrusion and at her smile. "How can you be pleased?"Narcissa was beaming with excitement as she replied, "The revolution has begun, that's how!"Hermione shook her head, feeling confused, "But two of the bills failed."Narcissa gently put a hand on Hermione's arm, "Of course they did, honey."Hermione felt even more confused. "What do you mean, of course they did?"Narcissa sighed at her protege's response. "You are trying to change the course of an ocean liner that hasn't had anyone steer it in nearly a millennia. And you are but one witch. I actually fully expected your first attempt at any legislation to completely fail. The fact that two of the four bills passed puts us way ahead of schedule. The ten year plan to have you elected Minister for Magic can now officially be accelerated. It could happen with in 5 years easily now. If there happens to be another uprising, and you help defeat it, and who knows what could happen then.""You're really serious about this," commented Neville"Of course I am, Longbottom," stated Narcissa. "This young lady has nothing but upward potential at this point."Neville frowned at the responseNarcissa crossed her arms and sized up Neville. "I get it, you don't trust me, probably because you hate my sister. Let me remind you that I am not my sister, young Lord. I never supported anything that crazy woman did. I also didn't support my husband, but I was forced into a marriage contract. But I am still a Black and I have my own ambitions. And the best way to achieve those are through this woman, so yes, I am taking advantage of Miss Granger. But ask her yourself, has she compromised on any of her own beliefs so far?"Hermione silently shook her head no when Neville looked at her and raised an eyebrow."I didn't think so," commented Narcissa. " So then, what issue do you have with me? Or are we back to the dinner at the Potter Estate this past fall?"Hermione's response was on her face, clearly uncomfortable at the mention of that fateful night that led to her running out on Draco the next day. Neville finally spoke up, "I wasn't there, as you well know, but from what I have heard, your treatment of Hermione that night was deplorable."Narcissa waved off his comments. "It accomplished what was necessary. Draco and Hermione really weren't good for each other. Hermione is better without him holding her back. Draco needs to find his own way, and who knows, maybe now he will. Maybe he can finally become the man he needs to be. He is a Black, and no, he will never be the Lord of that house, but maybe he will learn something good from Lord Potter-Black after all, as he does have some potential. And no offence Hermione, darling, but Draco needs a pureblood wife. He doesn't have the strength of character to pull off restoring the house of Malfoy without one. Oh, Harry Potter could do it, Potters have never had a problem with muggleborn women, and I'm sure young Lord Longbottom could do it too. Neville, here, showed what he was made of last year by defying the Carrows. But sadly, I know my son too well."Hermione and Neville were gobsmacked by her comments.Narcissa noted their reactions to her diatribe and then she continued. "If I am going to advise you I need to be honest. You and Draco would never have lasted. But you and Longbottom, you're a power couple. At least I think thats the term the muggles would use. But I digress. Hermione, you've made a good start. Your proposal for recognising other magical creatures was soundly defeated. The proposal for changing hiring policies at the ministry, that one came closer to passing than I ever imagined it could have, and it might stand a chance during the next session. We just need to be careful. Be gracious in the defeat of the bills that lost, and be thankful and appreciative of the bills that passed. Make sure that you thank EVERYONE for their support, even if they didn't support you.""I'm not sure that I'm cut out to be a politician," commented Hermione, feeling even more tired after listening to Narcissa."Don't you worry your pretty little head about that, darling," commented Narcissa. "We'll make sure things move smoothly for you."

