The beech wood towered into the sky above the sunken road. The knuckled roots of the beeches grappled the crumbling earth of the steep bank. They were like exposed muscles, so tense with power that I expected to see them flex and tighten, taking a firmer grip upon the yielding surface. The road was hidden from the wood, and the hollow of air above it was soon overgrown by grey branches and green leaves.
It was a June morning, and the sun was warm. The tall beeches had a watery shine. Three hundred yards away, the boles of the trees – both near and distant – formed an encircling palisade of grey light rising and falling. The rust-coloured floor of the wood was covered with a tessellation of seed-husks and dead leaves. There were a few large oaks among the beeches, and a shining darkness of holly. Where the trees were widely spaced, there was a dense undergrowth of brambles, crossed here and there by the fish-like gleam of a fallen beech.
The stifled, emotional voice of a stock dove throbbed in the beech-dusk. The tall columns of the trees rose into vast cupolas of empty air. A nuthatch sang, loud but secretive, like a child pretending to be lost, scampering carelessly over the smooth pathways of the branches. The high canopy of small lime-green leaves, opaque and dark under cloud, became luminous and almost transparent when the sun shone. This tracery of leaves seemed to exist apart, as though it had sunk down from above to be sustained upon the fountains of grey branches rising from the pillars of the trees.
 
 
There were no paths. I wandered through the wood, going neither forward nor back. The fluctuation of the sunlight seemed to become as regular as the sea-breathing of the leaves. I had no sense of the passing of time. I felt insignificant beneath the heroic gestures of the trees. Chaffinches and mistle thrushes sang, green woodpeckers called, and there was the constant seething sound of young starlings begging for food.
Dark against the bright rust of the dead leaves, an unfledged starling lay flabbily upon its back. It was loose-skinned, helpless, and frog-like. Its eyes were closed, but twitching; its whole body twitched, its legs moved feebly, pathetically, feeling for foothold upon the unresisting air. It had probably been dropped there by the jay I had disturbed a few minutes earlier. It is sad to see life ending before it has really begun. So much apparent cruelty is mercifully concealed from us by the sheltering leaves. We seldom see the bones of pain that hang beyond the green summer day. The woods and fields and gardens are places of endless stabbing, impaling, squashing, and mangling. We see only what floats to the surface: the colour, the song, the nesting, and the feeding. I do not think we could bear a clear vision of the animal world.
 
 
The seamed and hollow cave of an old oak leaned out above me. A pipistrelle bat skittered up into the sunlight. The small twigs that still had leaves seemed to be clinging to the bole like parasites, like new trees growing from the dead and wrinkled hide of the old. The bole was tusked with the stumps of long-dead branches. The sky gleamed down through holes that were like empty eye-sockets. A wren walked over the wooden surface, its song echoing frivolously in the cloistral gloom of the friar-waisted tree. The oak was dying into a different life. Embossed with a gloat of goblin faces, it seemed to have assumed an animal existence, as though it might go crashing through the wood in search of prey.
Suddenly the song of a tawny owl trembled up into the sunlight, like a dark bloom. The monotonous sound of mobbing began; the screeching of jays, the scolding of blackbirds and chaffinches. The owl glided from the leaves of an oak, as though it had been ejected from a tunnel of shrill sound. It beat away between the tree-tops, glowing rufous and brown in the light of the beeches, looking paler and less real as it rose higher. The darkness seemed to dry away from its wings. Then it was gathered into the green lustre of a holly, where it could resume the leaf-starred night of its sleep. The sound of mobbing faded, and dispersed, and the wood was quiet again.
 
 
I walked on, moving slowly between the petrified saurian limbs of the trees. The boles of these beeches varied greatly in contour and texture. Many appeared smooth, like grey satin, but some had a sandpaper roughness and were covered with a shadow of moss. High in the green sunlight of the leaves, the trill of a wood warbler was faintly shimmering. Gradually the sound came lower, and closer, as the small green and yellow bird descended to some low-sweeping branches near the ground. He fluttered out briefly to take insects from the air; he picked food from the surface of the leaves with his bill; he peered under twigs, and tweaked gently at the bark. Occasionally I heard the softer, more reflective, four-note song, very remote and melancholy, the mandibles of the bill hardly separating. The main song came loudly, frequently, and at regular intervals, sometimes ceasing abruptly when the bird found food. It was a stuttering, slightly sibilant sound; a pleasant dry cascade, rather mechanical in timbre, beginning slowly, then descending and hastening into a cadence, a vehement trill. It is a sound one always associates with the shining green sea-light that moves endlessly over the pebbles of the beech leaves, with the mossy grey branches and the smooth boles mapped with shadow. The wood warbler’s singing ended as suddenly as it had begun, and soon the bird was hidden again and forgotten, absorbed by the high leaves.
 
 
Many times during the morning I had heard a dry scuffling sound in the trees, but had seen nothing. Now a grey squirrel suddenly appeared on the lowest branch of an oak, eight yards in front of me. It seemed to condense there out of the yellow woodland light, squatting immobile, rigid. Another squirrel flashed up on the side of the tree, ran downwards, then stopped. Its legs were spread wide apart, looking as though they were webbed, and its long claws gripped the fissures of the bark. Both squirrels kept still for a few minutes. Their large blue-black eyes, bulging from whitish fur, were dark and unreflecting, curiously dull, dimmed by a moleskin haze. They blinked frequently, their eyelids fluttering down like moths. I walked towards the tree. For a few seconds their lean shapes seemed to recede into grey blurs that slowly diminished. Then they were suddenly sucked away, hidden by the oak.
The squirrels leapt across to a beech, and ran up and down the bole, hiding from each other, squeaking and grunting. One ran out on to a branch and hung down by its forelegs; the other sprang from the branch beneath, clutched upward, and swung upon its tail. Then they both swung up on to the higher branch together. The larger one jumped over the smaller, scratching its face lightly with an outstretched paw. They chased again, purring with excitement, their claws scuttling crab-like over the smooth bark.
I was suddenly aware of a coldness in the sunlit glade. There was no movement. The squirrels stopped chasing, became sleek and watchful, looking upwards. Far off, the alarm-note of a chaffinch, the screech of a jay, the clatter of woodpigeons rising: closer, the calling of blackbirds, the inane laugh of a green woodpecker. Then a silence, a stillness like night descending. Under the canopy of the leaves, between the bars of sun and shadow, the wings of a sparrowhawk came gliding and dilating, ferrying a sidereal dusk through the green and tawny sunlight. It was a large bird; the broad wings resting upon the silence, the curved prow of the head riding over the still air. The fiery cornelian eyes were kindled with a glow of orange flame. The white keel of the chest was barred with darkness. The sparrowhawk had heard the squirrels, and had come to search for them. They had gone. The rigid shape tilted over, and circled slowly round the tree. It was a female, looking more like an owl than a hawk. It was brown in the sun, pearl-grey in the shadows. For a minute or more it twisted between the trees, fanning its wings and gliding. Then slowly it sailed out into the distance, dwindling and darkening up through the beeches, like a cloud lifting. The songs of birds shone again in the sunlit glade.
 
 
The afternoon was hot. The sunlight had a hard metallic glitter, the shade sank deep beneath the trees. The cooing of woodpigeons wafted sleepily through the warm air. I came to a clearing, where blackcaps sang among the brambles and a swallow flew above. A tall dead beech had the chimerical gleam of a lost city in the jungle, a city for birds and insects. One branch still had leaves; the others were truncated and decayed, flaking into dust. A treecreeper slanted up the greyish-white cliff of the bole, peering into crevices. It sang; a thin vehement tingling, like the melting of an icicle. It seized a caterpillar with the sharp pincers of its bill, banged it against the tree eight or nine times, presumably to kill it – in the same way that a kingfisher kills a large fish –then swallowed it in one gulp. The treecreeper moved upward again. After much hesitation, it followed one of the tributary branches to its source in the sky. Suddenly finding that its curved bill was tapping only the air, it seemed bewildered. It still searched for a higher way, looking up at the sky. Then it peered over the edge, saw the ground below, and flew down to the foot of another tree.
A green woodpecker appeared on the bole of the dead beech. I did not see it in flight. I saw only its shadow, and then the bird itself superimposed upon the shadow, as though its colours had materialised from a print on the sunlit bark. It moved upward in slow jerks, watched by a starling. Its eye shone dark, a dark stone within the white eye-ring and the surrounding patch of black. The scarlet feathers of its crown gleamed in the sun. The long, heavy-looking bill, greyish-white and tapering to a point, was sheathed into the narrow red and black head that bulged out, bullet-shaped, above the flexible neck. The large feet were laid flat on the side of the tree, with the toes stretching upward. The chest was a pale greenish-grey, brightening at the centre to a smudgy whiteness, a mossy shading that matched the beech-bark. The woodpecker drew its head back slowly, far back, leaning out from the tree; then it bowed slowly forward again. Its bill moved through a long arc, like a gun being slowly raised and lowered. Suddenly it flew off into the wood, dipping and rising silently between the trees. The red-feathered crown of its head seemed to fleck the green beech leaves with splashes of shining blood.
 
 
I sat in the shade of a holly, watching the dead beech. Jackdaws sometimes perched there, a wren sang, blue tits and nuthatches searched the bark for food. The hot sun tinted the tree with pale violet light. A grey squirrel crouched low along a dead branch, looking like a flake of grey bark. I kept still, and the squirrel became less wary, sitting up to wash its fur with its tongue, as a cat does, and to scratch its back. It moved to the bole of the tree and crept slowly downwards, head foremost, body and tail flattened against the bole, till it reached the roots. It lowered itself to the ground, till only its tail was stretched vertically upward. It was completely hidden, perfectly camouflaged. Through the binoculars, I could just see that it was a squirrel; without them it looked like another tendon of the spreading beech roots. Its eyes closed, and it seemed to be sleeping. But soon it crept away under the brambles, and I did not see it again. Like many animals, when they do not know they are being watched, it moved slowly and with apparent difficulty, as though its limbs were stiff or broken.
 
 
A jay screeched wildly in the beech wood, and fled into the open clearing, pursued by a sparrowhawk. The hawk drew in behind the jay. Its foot reached forward like a yellow hand, bony, febrile, clutching air, like an old man feeling in front of him. It clutched again. The talons hooked into the tail of the jay and crawled forward till they reached his back, like a climber hauling himself up a steep rock-face with his fingertips. The jay’s flight was broken. His wings moved feebly, spasmodically, like the oars of a boat whose rower has suddenly collapsed. Then they drooped listlessly in air. The two birds sank together like a crippled biplane, tilted, then dived into the brambles. The jay struggled, heaving up in a delirium of fear, but he was underneath and could not overthrow the hawk. He seemed defenceless. He had begun to die at the first touch of the knifing talons. Soon he was dead, and the hawk stood breathless above him, curved like a claw.
I heard the dry snuffling sound of feathers being plucked. It was like the crackling of a distant fire. A smoke of small feather-fronds drifted away in the breeze. The hawk’s head rose and fell, stabbing and wrenching. There was a sharp snapping of bones. The jay was lifted, and transformed. The feeding hawk seemed to glow with a fierce, infernal heat. The yellow eyes flickered and pierced. Fear could be felt in the quiet air. It bristled in the heat, like a faint cloud of frost-needles. The sun moved slowly through the beech leaves, and shone across the clearing. The hawk rose, and flew silently away into the wood, carrying the remains of its prey.
 
 
At four o’clock the green woodpecker returned to the dead beech. It landed on the bole, and stayed motionless for a long time. This lizard-like immobility is a characteristic of the species. One sees nothing curious in the complete stillness of a resting hawk, yet a woodpecker always seems odd unless it is moving. One forgets that this clinging to the side of a tree is the woodpecker’s natural perching position, in which it is quite relaxed and comfortable.
While the woodpecker remained rigidly still, as though it had been hypnotised, the jackdaws called above the clearing, circling and tumbling in a noisy flock. Bees crept among the faded blue flowers of the ground ivy, and a chiffchaff sang. Gradually the chiffchaff came lower in the trees, carrying food in its bill. It called softly, then dropped lightly down to its nest in the brambles. A jay flew to an oak, and sank silently above the chiffchaff, a bright shadow falling through the sunlight with sinister ease, foxy-red and fawn, staring-faced, flourishing its brilliant blue-eyed wings. I disturbed it before it could find and carry off the young birds.
At last the green woodpecker moved. It climbed slowly upward, and began to dig its bill into a cavity in the bole. It dug with tremendously fast stabbing movements. Its head vibrated violently into a green blur as it swung in and out. It attacked the tree, leaping at it savagely, hitting into it with destructive force. Its feet were glued to the bole, but its legs flexed and extended outwards like springs as it leant far back and then came pickaxing forward. At intervals it would stop abruptly, freezing into a posture of mute aggression. When the starlings came near, the woodpecker fluttered at them, lunging fiercely with its bill and clashing its wings among the leaves. It landed on a swaying twig, and its wings and tail spread out to an astonishing width, making it look large and formidable, a green and yellow brilliance, like a huge tropical butterfly.
Eventually it stayed on the living branch of the dead tree, doing nothing, apparently exhausted. Occasionally it moved a short distance up or down. The big crinkled toes, like grey spiders, reached a long way in front of the resting bird. They rose or sank for several seconds before the bird itself began to move. Its legs were thick and sinewy, bouncing and springing as though the tree was a trampoline. They moved like the hind legs of a hare; sometimes slow and crippled, sometimes boundingly light and supple. When I went closer, the woodpecker sank over the side of the branch till only its steeply-pointing bill, red crown, and bright eye, were showing. When I moved back, it flew away.
 
 
Now that the woodpecker has gone, I am able to relax, to stand freely at the foot of the beech. Two starlings are feeding their young in the hole where the woodpecker was digging. It may have been trying to enlarge the hole, which could have been its nest-site before the starlings dispossessed it; or it may have been trying to kill or eject the young starlings. The violence of its action suggested assault, but woodpeckers are extravagant in all their movements, flinging themselves about with melodramatic zest or remaining motionless with a woodenness that is like a rigor.
Behind me, as I stand concealed by the dead tree, I can hear the hesitant blundering sound of a timid animal moving through the brambles. A roe deer has come out into the cooler air of the clearing. It is a sudden glow of colour, a rich chestnut-red, like a long-legged fox. Its nose twitches, and its big ears move nervously. It is the size of a large dog, very tremulous and slender, with docile, wondering eyes. This is a different place. The deer looks up at the dead beech, listening for familiar sounds. It watches me for half a minute; then it turns, and trots back towards the trees. It stops, and looks round. Then it gallops, leaping like a lamb, bounding away into the beech wood. It has been to the edge of the world.
 
 
I go back into cover, waiting for the woodpecker to return. The boles of the trees are softened by a mellower light. High above, a heron is circling slowly to the south. Its long bill shines like ivory in the evening sun. I look down to see the sparrowhawk gliding to the top of the dead beech. Its brown wings flutter mistily as it perches, facing the sun. It relaxes, shakes out its feathers, and sinks down upon the tree. It now looks smaller, hunched and dumpy, with a narrow head that is flattened slightly across the crown. The large eyes are the centre of the bird. Their dark pupils are encircled by glowing irises of brilliant citron yellow. They are like savage stone-age eyes staring through the mask of the present. The resting hawk is like a wooden idol that has been carved and varnished and set in the sun to dry. It looks primitive, tongueless, huge-eyed, and glaring. Cuckoos call in the distance, thrushes and blackbirds sing. The air is quiet, the breeze a far sighing in the beeches. The life of the wood is unchanged, but it seems to have dwindled, to be strangely remote. The sparrowhawk does nothing, does not move its head, glares as though blind. It is volcanic, smouldering with suppressed violence. The green woodpecker flies back to the beech, dips abruptly as it sees the hawk, and lands near the foot of the bole. The hawk looks down, the woodpecker stares up. The two prehistoric profiles have the profound stillness of weapons in repose. Slowly the sun sinks below the trees and the shadows rise over the dead beech. The woodpecker darkens, but the hawk still shines. Suddenly the woodpecker has gone. The hawk dives down into the submerging shadows. Only the man remains.

Out here is the true smell of the sea, very salt and liquid, like cold salt water flooding the nostrils with sudden fear. The wind is chlorine-coloured; it shines, it shines with speed. The boat dives forward through mouths of glittering foam. The sail cracks like a whip upon the wind. The shore recedes, the cliffsinks down, the land narrows to a thin grey splinter. The raised jaw of a speedboat passes, swallowing water. There is a pale haze in the centre of the western sky, where the wind is rising. The sail is like a white fin curving from the foam. To the south, the blue light bends inland, arching over the dim inland towns. Summer is hidden, an ark of leaves now sinking deep in time. It shrinks small, till it is like a green star glimmering through dark shadows.
The boat turns, and the sail swings over. The cold viridian mass of the sea rises up through the hurling spray. The sun dazzles. We surge towards the shore. A large bird, like a gull, is gliding low above the water. It tilts and sways as it glides, shearing the waves with the tips of its wings. Its long wings beat quickly; then it glides again, holding them stiffly out in a straight and level line. They are marked with grey and white. The short, thick-set body is mostly pure white. It has a prominent, rather duck-like bill, a short thick neck, and a very short tail. Its wing-beat is lighter, faster, and more flexible, than a gull’s. It is strong and effortless, propelling the bird forward at great speed. Now we are closer, I can see that it is a fulmar. Its wings simply flex and straighten, yet it moves as fast as a mallard. It seems to hiss through the air. The long yellow bill, thick and ornate, protrudes from the high white forehead and the stout neck. The face, the mask, has a dolphin expression, placid and serene in profile, grim and forbidding from in front. The fulmar flies to the north, never checking or pausing, gliding and beating away with no slackening of speed or alteration of rhythm. It seems as powerful and tireless in motion as the sea itself.
The huge and glittering headlands of slate rise slowly from the sea, like defaced idols. The rocks of the shore appear, with the white waves towering above them. A falcon dashes away from the rocks, hurling low across the surface of the sea. It is a merlin, an adult male, shining blue in the sunlight. Far above him, and a hundred yards in front, a flock of ringed plover is flying, like a net of gleaming stars. The merlin dips and sways above the water, light and swift as the tongue of a snake. He whips away great spans of air with sharp wings that quiver up and down like flickering spokes. He flies faster, springing and leaping forward, his wings shimmering as though they were beneath the surface of the water. I can see only the glitter of their vibration. The narrow, attenuated stem of the hawk’s body darts violently from side to side. He draws level with the ringed plover, but keeps low. Then he rises, curving up through the bright air as though thrown up on the curve of a great wheel. He shines upward in a sudden crescent of light, passes between the plover, and tilts over, and down, and back to the waves that rise to meet him. Again he sweeps upward, piercing the flock. He is below them, among them, through them, above them, through them, beneath them. They scatter like sparks. He rises beyond them, but does not strike again. His wings wither away in flashes of blue light. They shrink into stillness as he disappears to the south. He becomes a shining star that quickly dims into the salt air. The day resumes its warmth. The ringed plover go back to feed upon the shore. The merlin has flown into a different sky.
A cormorant passes overhead, gaunt and ragged, like a burnt gannet. A buzzard circles high to the south, above the hidden wood. Little terns are hunting off-shore, flying to and fro above the shallows. The first bird to see a fish calls excitedly before hovering and plunging down between the rocks. It drops with a tremendous splash into water just deep enough to cover it. Other little terns fly up in response to the call, and they also hover and dive for fish. The first bird is successful sometimes, the other never.
The land comes steadily forward. The headlands move apart, and a small bay is revealed. The boat rides through into calmer water, and the shuddering sail subsides. I step up on to the stone of the harbour wall, heavy with hot sunlight, dazed by the colours of the sea.
 
 
It seems strange that it should still be morning, with the untouched inland day rising above me. I climb the steep path to the top, sleepy in the warm air of the cliff. A whitethroat sings in the dry brambles. Slowly the sea sinks down. The fierce green and grey of the swell is smoothed away, reaching out to the horizon in a level haze of pure cobalt blue, edged with a narrow ermine of white foam, deepening to purple where the long cloud-shadows move steadily eastward. It is impossible to believe now in the alien power and pounding hostility of the sea. It basks down there in the sun, looking as calm as the breeze-ruffled surface of a lake on which innumerable dark blue petals are floating.
I rest at the top of the cliff. Gulls call and glide above. The dry, metallic song of a rock pipit drifts slowly down to the beach. A kestrel hangs high and motionless above the shining yellow and white flowers that almost hide the green grass of the meadow. The path leads down the slope of a valley to a lane that ends suddenly a hundred yards from the edge of the cliff. Deep in the valley there is a small church, very quiet and still beneath its plume of noisy jackdaws.
From the hill above the church I can look across the combes and uplands to the grey line of the moor. It rises into the southern sky like a perpetual winter, remote in both time and distance. It has its own light and climate, its own clouds, mist, sun, and rain. It is like the ultimate reality, the ruin of the earth, the sea risen inland.
 
 
The road to the moor winds between tall hedges, through deep valleys, and over low, undulating hills. The gorse is bright with blossom, there is a smell of hay and honeysuckle, bees drone in the flowers, and many birds sing. Gradually the trees thin out, there are fewer farms and cottages, the road rises and does not descend again.
 
 
A corn bunting sings from the last leaning boundary wall. The white farmhouse moves slowly back and down, becoming a white speck upon a green plain. The air changes. It is colder, sharper now. The wind hisses softly through the dry grass. Small brown streams ripple over grey stones. Many skylarks sing. But in the brief pauses between their songs, the unbroken silence seems to move around me with an immense and primitive power. This is the moor, the rejected land of granite, the green desert of the plutonic rock.
There are no trees or bushes here. Only the weathered grey stones of the tors rise above the undulating olive surface of the grass and heather. The brilliant emerald green of the sphagnum moss, and the white tassels of the cotton-grass, shine in the boggy places. Much of the moor is wet to walk upon, the hidden water glinting through the green. There are fewer skylarks now, but many meadow pipits are singing. Their slanting cadences, quieter and more musical than the song of the rock pipit, descend like countless threads of shining gossamer.
The sudden declarative call of a buzzard rings through the desolate air. It is a loud ‘pee-oo’, emphatic and intimidating. The bird is circling high above, sailing easily round, searching for rabbits. It gleams golden-brown in the sun, broad-winged, and dense with feathers. A raven flies towards the buzzard, uttering its deep uvular croak, a dark and resonant vibration. It has the small-eyed menacing look of a black bull. The shaggy dewlap of its throat still quivers. It dives at the buzzard, drives it downward, and chases it beyond the skyline.
The afternoon sun is warm, but summer is banished by the unrelenting wind. The moorland air is never mellowed by any change of season. Here on the higher slopes there are few birds. Nothing moves but the grass, the dry blades bending over into a thin yellow haze. Far below me a curlew calls. Large grey-lichened stones litter the slopes, like the droppings of some great animal. The skull of a sheep shines in the sun. Clouds move endlessly across the sky, but the sun is seldom lost. There is a smell of peat, of the acid water of the boggy ground. A distant rock, a small white dot against the sky, is hidden for a moment by the tawny shadow of a fox. Nothing changes. The silence is complete. The world beyond is dead.
 
 
At the highest point of the moor there is a small grey stone that seems to flutter in the wind. When I move closer, I can see that the wings of a snipe are moving on the stone. A merlin ate the snipe there earlier in the day, leaving the wings and feathers of his kill. The stone is dark with bloodstains. It is like a place of sacrifice. The merlins must have been carrying their prey to this stone for many years. There are other kills. The feathers of skylarks and meadow pipits move softly in the wind.
The male merlin is the size of a mistle thrush; the female is larger, almost as big as a kestrel. In level flight a merlin appears to move faster than any other hawk. This may be an illusion created by the remarkably rapid wing-beat, by the small size of the bird, and by its habit of flying just above the ground where it is difficult to see. But the apparent speed is astonishing. The male can almost vanish into a film of flickering wings. He twists and turns as abruptly as a swallow, very light and buoyant, but he seldom glides. It is as though his wings must be used constantly to keep him close to the ground, as though he were in danger of lifting suddenly up into the sky, of escaping completely from the power of the air.
 
 
Time drifts steadily away in the wind, the arc of the sun burns slowly down to the west. I am lost in the meditation of endless movement, in the flowing away of the clouds, in the drifting of the seeds of grass, in the sinking of hidden water towards the fulfilment of the sea. I am at the mercy of motion, tethered by the stones of the moor but ready to depart, to dive into the waiting sky.
Far down the green slope to the south there is a sudden agitation of the grass. Now it is closer, a dark occlusion of the dazzling sphagnum. Twenty yards away a tufted mound of white cotton-grass turns to misty blue. It is the male merlin, silent, alert, watching me with large brown eyes that shine and dim with the opal reflections of the passing clouds. The blue of his back seems to darken as he perches, slowly declining to dull grey. His chest is rust-coloured, yellowish, flecked with black, blending with the wind-bent blades of the withering grass. There is a faint tremor of wings, a brief pricking of primaries against the sky, a declining undulation of blue light. He had gone.
 
 
The sun is low now, and there is no warmth. The silence here is like a slow dusk spreading out upon the moor. The sun still shines, but the cold night air is descending. I leave the high places, and go down through the long shadows of the hills. The last lark sings, curlew and lapwing call in the valleys of the lost streams. The silence of night moves over me. The moor sinks slowly down, into the Cambrian darkness.

The heavy sun pressed down; heat smote upward from the water-shimmering road. The hot sun numbed the mind; cool rushes of green shade revived. A warm breeze stifled in the solid trees. All sound was dry. A fume of summer coiled upon the fields.
Blind cars had made their kill. Many birds lay shattered in the road: blackbirds, thrushes, and starlings, were pulped and flattened in the sanded tar. A rat, a mole, and a rabbit, had been reduced to rusty stain. Traffic made the insects rise. Swifts came down to feed, cutting between cars, bouncing in the hot metallic glare. Low down in front of wheels the thin dark shapes cut through. Fifty miles an hour was simple to them; merely the speed they started from. Like black-ripping many-bladed knives, they flung ahead, crisping across windscreens, blurring into light, unseen, untouched, gathering their prey. The insects that were left were smashed to green haze upon the heated glass.
 
 
The cool, quiet river was relief. The hot snarl of the distant road was soothed away. Slender damsel-flies, dark blue points of light, were hovering in the sharp green reeds. Something like a wisp of smoke – but it was not smoke – five feet high, and twirling, came quickly through the tall grass. It was like a thin mist rising. Grass bent before it. There was a hissing. Trees leaned away, and leaves moved frantically. Then the silvery spiral died into the river. It was a whirlwind, created by the heat, and sent spinning across fields to find its water-quenching.
Under willows, among the close-growing yellow stems of tall, tufted reeds, a reed warbler sang. His small, soft body trembled with the sound. His frail legs were splayed apart, each spidery foot clinging to a separate reed-stem. It was a sweet uncertainty of song, a thin, harpish resonance of repeated notes, reedy, far-carrying, wistful, always about to end yet never ending, as though the reeds themselves were singing. It is a song that will not fade into silence. It has to be listened to. The strange jerky twanging is like a forgotten language. No other bird has this lonely chant lying beneath the surface of his song. Dragonflies hovered, and settled on the green and yellow sifting of the barley. Their wings were invisible. Their narrow bodies, two inches long, were like many-jointed stems of porcelain. They clung to the barley, where they looked like hanging fragments of white twig. Small insects were lured towards this limpid whiteness, and were easily caught.
Over the flat fields of potatoes, ridged with deep green and the sleep white of blossom, the heat-haze was tall and shining. Men moved slowly on the far side of fields that seemed immense. They were bent and distorted by the haze. The weight of a great age seemed to hang upon them, as though they had moved back into the past, as though they had gone out through the shine of the now to bring back the dead to labour in the heat that was once their own. There was a throwing down of hoes, a settling of shapes into the lower haze. Then a man strode away, moving with crinkled knees, wading up towards the light. He dwindled along the dry farm road till his head was deep down and lost in the vapour of the skyline. Then the fields were empty. The haze moved gently from side to side in a slow ritual motion.
There was a faint coolness at the water’s edge, but up in the wood the heat was as solid as the dusty trees. Even where the wood had been cleared, where large bundles of faggots were lying, there was no air, no gap in the pale hot dusk. I foundered into shade, and slept for a time under the huskiness of dry-rattling branches. Beyond the wood, the sunlight stood firm and changeless in the rising wind.
 
 
I woke to the soft calling of a kestrel. It was perched in a solitary oak on the far side of the clearing, out in the shimmering mist of heat. It rose, and the blue sky slid beneath it. More sky poured under, and the sharp hawk glinted small. There was coolness for the eye in that smooth ascension. I walked across the fields between the woods. The zenith of the day was past, and the light was tilting down towards the distant shade of night. The white glare was fading to a yellowness that was like pale shadow. The air was still intensely hot, but it was broken into segments by the wind.
All the heat of the day had gathered in a valley to the north of the wood. The heavy walls of the trees were ivied with dusk; the winding light of paths faded up into the wood, and sombred away to shadow. The steep lane rose and fell beneath the evening sun, smooth and warm and shining like a sleeping snake, gliding under martins and swallows. Honeysuckle twined its cold fragrance from the passing hedge. Bracken and willow-herb shone between trees where lakes of sunlight slowly dried away. The heat floated up into the sky, and the cool evening air poured like water through the parching wood. A barn owl came flying from the east, gathering light from the glow of the fields, bearing away the aching and the glare.
The wood is remote, and secretive, under the flowing down of the day’s great heat, like an animal stretching towards sleep. Later, at the first cool touch of night, it exhales a sweet-smelling cow’s breath of hot bracken, birch leaves, and dusty bark, and that strange scent which is kindled by them and is indefinable. Then the lane is a rising and falling of heat and cold, and the horizontal fragrance of the honeysuckle whips across my face in cold white flashes, like the smell of a storm.
 
 
I went past the farm to the west of the wood, where the high barns glowed with hay, down the dusty path between the dry rustling of the corn, and out into the sand-coloured stubble of the big hayfield. The bales of hay were standing far apart, or leaning together in clusters, scattered irregularly across the field. Some bales were seven feet tall, some only three or four. They were already fading to dull yellow, the compressed grass withered and dry, and sere as reeds. But I could not believe the grass was dead. Hay has no beginning, and no end. It is a suspension between life and death. The bales were damp on the eastern side, where the sun had not yet dried them. I could not smell the hay till I pressed my face against its prickly warmth. The possessive reek of a fox hung in the heavy air. Already the green and white striped stubble was soaking with dew. Many blackbirds, thrushes, and starlings, were feeding in the aftermath. Skylarks sang up into the sky’s vast globe of pearl; swifts and swallows flickered at the rim, like fins. Rabbits leapt at the edges of the fields, in and out of the long shadows.
Close to the wood, a flock of lapwings was calling and running forward. There were thirty of them, moving like a darkness over the pale gleam of stubble and the paler gleam of the ungathered hay. They flew up into the yellow sunlight, changing from black and white to a revolving of green and blue, blue-black and orange. Thrushes and tree pipits sang beside the wood. The mower has left a fringe of buttercups, and some tall grass still stands, looking now a strange, deep, foreign green. The heavy-shaded oaks, whose branches reach out like dark wings above the edges of the field, seem lighter now the grass is down. The flat shine of the stubble is reflected on the undersides of the leaves. The light of the grass has fallen. It lies like a Pharoah in the sweet embalmment of the hay. In a mown field there is always something floating, just above the ground, invisible, impalpable. The air that moved between the grasses seems to be still hovering there. The whole field floats upward. Its weight is in the bales; the rest is buoyant, like a rising sea. Far above the sun, high clouds of cirrus shone like silver wisps of hay.
 
 
Leaving the field, I walked slowly up the path beside the larch wood. It was nine o’clock. A wren sang briefly, and left the silence tingling. Deep down in the oaks to the north, there was the submerged sound of distant woodpigeons singing. The bracken smelt fresh in the open, but under the oaks and larches it was rank and decaying. Suddenly there was a sharp, sweet scent, rather sickly and female. It seemed to come from the grass of the ride, but when I bent down to look closer, it had gone. There was no flower there. Seen from low down, the bracken to the south was high and hemlock-dark; the rosebay willow-herb shone like stands of purple pine. The sun was pencilled with clouds. It sank beneath them, red and gold, and rested on the skyline. The oaks and larches of the wood were crossed with a last touch of fire. Fox-flames burnt briefly upon bark, a splash of liquid colour. Hot golden light burnt deep, branding the trees with a ring of fire. Then it suddenly withdrew, retracted in long flashes across fields, and whipped downward with the sinking sun. What a god-denying betrayal it must have seemed to the first men, to find that the sun would not float upon cloud or water, but would always sink, would always plunge into the skyline, never to be dug up again, burrowing like a golden mole to burst at morning into eastern air.
One by one the thrushes stopped singing. The only bird-sound left was a distant piety of robins. I went back towards the hayfield. Colder air was already piercing the warmth of the ride. Everything was very still, quieter since the setting of the sun. The sun is silent, yet unconsciously we may be aware of its endlessly roaring flames, like the far whisper of an unseen waterfall. Three mallard flew down into the red gulf of the sunset. A late swift chafed the zenith of the cooling sky. Over and through and over the long hedge that slants around the field, a male sparrowhawk came weaving and fanning and gliding. He drifted up into an oak, and was held there by the dark boughs. Nothing came away. Through the moonlight of my binoculars, I saw him standing on a branch, dwarfish and malevolent, his ringed eye dulling to an ashen core. Dusk-coloured, he crouched and waited in the night of the tree. Every twig seemed to vein inwards to the fevered heart of the hawk. Then spasm, contortion; he grazed across the light, swerving like a bat. He was chasing a bat. He could not catch it. He wrenched away, and dropped with choking suddenness on to the song of a robin. Somewhere in the silver water of the birches there was a wild splashing of wings. Then all was quiet. The song came again, but not the hawk.
 
 
The sky was still bright above the hayfield. Near the hedge, up against the western horizon, a fox was sitting on a bale of hay. He peered downwards, walked along a line of bales, then stopped to wash himself. Rabbits fed nearby, but they were not alarmed. Occasionally the fox leapt into the air like a kitten, back legs leaving the ground, front legs waving, jaw snapping shut as he tried to catch moths. He was a thin-looking fox, with big pointed ears, very red and white. Suddenly he jumped away from the bales and trotted quickly down into a gulley. Rabbits scuttled into the hedge. The fox re-appeared, much closer now. He watched the rabbits, but did not follow them. He came towards me, head held low, the fluffy red fur of his chest ruffling as he ran. He was a large cub, still rather woolly, with bandy, wobbly-looking legs. Five yards away he saw my feet, and stopped. He stared at them. Very slowly he raised his head and looked higher, but his eyes did not focus on my face. They seemed not to rise above waist-level. In the half-light they looked dull brown, with dark treacly pupils. I could sense his sudden gasp, his long indrawn breath, his prolonged tremor of wonder, of bewilderment, of fear, of indecision. He bucked, throwing up his hind legs, as a rabbit does. He sank down, and looked up at me from a different angle. Then he turned, and ran away. His white-tipped tail was dark, darker than his body. It filled with air and looked thick and solid as he ran.
 
 
I went down towards the wood. A tawny owl called ‘kee-wick’, the first true sound of night. Slowly I walked down the long slope of the field and up into the hushed unanimity of oaks that rose on the far side. As I came nearer, they seemed to move apart. Their stillness was dark and immense, a weight upon the eyes, a pressing-in of the ear-drums. The afterglow in the west reddened the trees’ rough bark. I touched it to be sure that it was not some strange luminosity that would come off on to my fingers. My hand cast a faint shadow. The sun had set half an hour before. It was the stillness of the trees that made them so vividly alive. They seemed to be holding themselves upright in a tall silence, like hunters that do not wish to be seen. They were drawing together across the last remaining light, closing in, massing. The soft greyness of the wood was hardening to a unity of black; inimical, if you believe the dumb are your enemies.
The scent of the wood was stronger now, a rich warmth flowing outwards like a river of leaves. The field was damp and cold with the dew. The white-starred elders held wisps of heat above the dark skull of the rabbit warren. Delicate, thin-stepping, a fox trotted by, like a wind walking softly through the grass. A heron flew westward, black-winged and ponderous with the night to come. The white flakes of the ghost moths fumbled at the bracken. Stones gleamed white in the dry earth, and dead grass shone. A dozen noctule bats came out of the wood with a rush, like a dry crepitation of fluttering hands. The larched air was foiled and wrinkled with their leathery swarming. They swooped and curved over the whitening sky, capturing insects. A smoke of sounds drifted from the distant village: the fraying bark of a dog, a dusk of voices.
The tawny owl’s dark release of song quavered from the pine wood. The sleek dusk bristled with it, like the fur of a cat. I moved under the gloomy trees. The owl surfed out across the rising night. He could hear the turn of a dry leaf, the relaxing of a twig, the loud scamper of a soft-skinned mouse. To him the silence was a flare of sound, a brilliant day of noises dazzling through the veins of dusk. Lynchets of light were striped over the dark ground, and he could interpret them, like forgotten field-shapes found from high above. The wood rose beneath him, dominioned like a wolf’s mane, black and silver-grey. Then the map of darkness streamed with a flight of glittering eyes; and the thin sound of a mouse-death whined high in the heavy air.
 
 
Under the oppressive warmth of the oaks, I waited for the nightjar to appear, but by ten o’clock it still had not called or sung. Two hawks flitted low above the bracken, like the shadows of small hands clenching and unclenching. They spurted along, dancing on the tips of their wings, like rays finning along the bottom of the sea. One was chasing the other, but could see no more than that. They were sudden leaps of darkness, and then nothing. A badger blundered through the bracken, making more noise than a man. It was going down to drink at the stream. A pipistrelle bat twitched and tugged at the light. The nightjar did not sing till ten minutes past ten, fifty minutes after sunset. He perched on a dead tree, but I could hardly see him. The still air throbbed almost painfully with the dryness of his song. Then came the sudden ending, the whirring bubble-notes, and the weird wing-smacking. Most exciting of all was the silence, when I did not know where he was, when the whole dusk seemed to be leaping and gliding with long, light wings, seemed to be hoarse and gaping with wide, moth-catching, sack-like mouths.
Five minutes later there were two nightjars in the clearing, just visible when they crossed the zenith of the sky. All light came from above. It had withdrawn completely from the ground, even from the whitest of the big flinty stones. The nightjars chased between the trees, looping and turning in narrow circles, slashing the smooth velvet dusk, threading darkness through the light. They flew low above the bracken. I heard a deep purring sound rising from them as they sank down. It was very different from the song. This was a deep-throated, softer sound, a vibrant humming, like the ecstatic purring of a tiger. It seemed to grip and shake the darkness, dizzying low, spreading over the ground like murmuring water. Its warm vibration sucked at my ears. The birds came close to me. I saw the white spots on the wings of the male, and the white tips of his outer tail feathers, like chips of white wood whirring across the bracken. Then they had gone, sinking and slurring down into the dark valley, leaving the air colder, void, and the night suddenly descending.
 
 
I went back to the hayfield. Lapwings scattered, and called loudly. Their calling is always louder at night, a sharp emphatic ‘pee-wit’, with a pause between the syllables. The smell of the hay was stronger, sweeter now; the whole field was adrift with it. It was the smell of raw green death, exuberant, nostalgic, piercing; the sour sweetness of decay, the earth itself in flower. Breathing it, I seemed to become lighter, aerial. I ran through the dark field, ran between the tall trilithons of the hay bales that leant against the sky like the tilted circle of Stonehenge. It seemed that deep in the ground, far below in the past, men were lifting the hay towards me. And I could bend to meet them, passing my arms down through the stiffness of the earth to receive the death of grass, the midsummer changing of the grass into the dry papyrus of the living hay.
The moon rose from the dark rim of the wood, a red arc flaming upward like a fire rising, turning from red to orange, from orange to a circle of deep yellow. The hay bales flung their long shadows from them, like a silent flinging out of wings. The hay was white as frost. The trees were darker now the moon had risen. I walked through the pine wood. The grass in the rides had been cut and left to dry. It swished softly over my feet. The pines and spruces were black beside me, but up in the moonlight, high above, they were blue, deep blue, like the draped wings of the magpie that hung glittering down from the dead gallows-tree. A tawny owl rushed from branch to branch, as fast and light as a hawk. A hawk would have seemed almost cumbersome compared with this cloud-soft throwing forward of the silence.
Over the hayfield, the nightjar leapt and glided, swayed and fluttered, black and silver-white in the phosphorescence that seemed to scatter like spray from his moonlit wings. He perched on the tall bales, breathing out the dark snake of his song to fork and flicker at the moon. He was curious, and quite without fear. He followed me as I walked across the field, circling above my head, beating his wings and leaping upward: a soft, slow beat, a brief pause, then the incredibly light and buoyant lifting, springing up through the damp air like dark flame rising from the mouth of his wings. With wide-open bill he netted the big ghost moths that twisted away like white lips over the bracken feathering my hands.
Clouds hid the moon. The night sank into shadow, and soft owl-voices raised the trees. After eleven o’clock the nightjar did not sing so often. His song was briefer, less loud, less fervent, more even in pitch and tone. Between midnight and two o’clock I heard him twice. He did not come back to the dead tree. He sang occasionally after three o’clock, but he was silent long before sunrise. I did not know where his nest was, and in the complete darkness I was afraid to walk far in case I should tread upon it.
Reed warblers sang at midnight along the moonlit stream, a sound that hovered like a shining mist. But when the moon had gone, I could see nothing. Only my hands could tell the black air from the black bark. The clouds seemed to be very low, hanging like cobwebs between the tops of trees, dragging clammily across my face. The dense midsummer smell of the birch leaves had dispersed in the cold air. A badger screamed, a long, gurgling tusk of sound curving up into the darkness and twisting loose into a gash of foamy white. Bats creaked among the trees. The returning silence, the silence encircling me, moving inwards, inwards, like silent wings, was the sound of night. The mind seemed to open like a flower to let the silence enter, wings folding within, thousands of dark wings folding down into the darkness of the mind. I clung to the bracken, hung helplessly in sleep from the dark mane of the spinning world.
 
 
By two o’clock there was a paler darkness in the eastern sky. It grew and spread till it was brighter than the returning moon, brighter than the afterglow of sunset, a great arch of light burning away the starry edge, curving over the darkness above me, dwindling it down, flaring behind the horizon till all was clear and new again. The earth had risen.
A carrion crow called, defiling the light with the black imprint of his wings. The sky was blue and wet and shivering. The first lark sang. The sun rose, and black shadows fled across the blazing rainbow dew-shine of the starry grass. The hayfield lay prone beneath the sunlight, no longer aerial. Apocalyptic bird-song rang from wood to wood.
I went down to the lane, dazed by the brilliance of the day, my mind still webbed with night’s fading blackness, with the darkness that even in the brightest sunlight never completely dies. We have our darkness within us, our beating hearts are black, our limbs move in black nets of muscle; light enters our bodies only through the sudden wound.
