The forgotten path is hidden beneath grass and campion and cow parsley. Above it, the hawthorn is warm with the white ash of its blossom. The song of the greenfinches is as slow and sleepy as the languid air, as the warm southern breeze. A cuckoo calls endlessly in the distance, a soft-echoing voice that faces and returns but comes no nearer. These sounds deepen the quiet haze of the may.
Under the splinters of the numbed hedge, a whitethroat sings. He creeps among the nettles, furtive, wandering, seen here and there like glimpses of a pouring snake, making the red campion flowers nod and quiver. He will be here throughout the summer, feeding, nesting, singing above his meagre territory, glad of the growth to come, this ragged remnant of a hedge.
The small woods of the upland plain, where sparrowhawks once nested, are a brown mist in the summer heat of the still afternoon. The white blossom of an orchard has risen in slow flight. It hovers low in the shimmering haze. I sit on a fallen tree at the edge of a pine wood. Many birds are singing in the clearings. Between the trees, the bluebells are like a film of lilac smoke that has no definite outline. The scent is much sharper and more palpable than the drifting colour. A garden warbler flies into a tree above. His whole body shakes with song. His throat leaps and flutters with the strangeness of it, the syrinx inhabited by an inexplicable joy of music. The feathers of the bird’s throat and nape part in dark rippling lines. The song flows on, with only brief pauses. The colour of the bluebells intensifies, the thick scent droning with a sleep of bees.
The pine wood is motionless, withdrawn. The vibrating wings of a bee stir the dry leaves and twigs beside the log. A faint breeze-lifted trail of sawdust whirls up and slowly sinks again as the bee drones higher and spirals away. Then nothing moves in the windless air. The brown mist of the distant woods is slowly becoming sky. The curved heads of the lost sparrowhawks seem to ascend from the horizon’s dusky haze. Their harsh calls ring again in the heat and the silence.
 
 
Fear grew like a fungus upon the green surface of the woodland air. The violent flight of the sparrowhawk throbbed through the nerves of the dark rides. The hawk was fugitive, wild, a creature of shadow, doomed, dim with the power of death. It was distance, mystery, hope, the hidden heart of fire from which the green leaves burned and fluttered. The violence was hidden, transmuted into threat, into the clouds of uneasy birds rising like smoke over the bright clearings. The hawks themselves were seldom seen. I found the nebulous ring of blowing feathers or glimpsed a grey thistledown of wings drifting through a sky of leaves. The hawks only became real when they hung dead from the gamekeeper’s gallows tree, the wild spirits transfixed into solidity at last.
To be in these woods then was to be in a beyond world. Towns and people had no meaning. They were shut out by the horizon, by the shining rim of the trees. The distance that separated me from them was like a slope too steep ever to be scaled again. I could only go forward, treading stealthily through the mossy gloom of the summered rides, lost in the dusty smell of the hot leaves. The sense of violence was muted, dimmed, yet it was always there, breathing upon the stillness. Then would come the minatory crash of the gamekeeper’s gun, the sound threshing away, echoing from wood to wood. And then the soft whisper of flying wings, the grey wraith passing swiftly down the dark ride, the hawk seen close yet never really seen, the presence abiding when the bird had gone, hanging in the green air like a mist, palpable as the smell of a fox yet never condensing to any certain shape.
Against every sky, I saw then the curved and inflexible line of a hawk’s bill; the lack of a face; the glittering opacity of an eye that had the glare of the sea, intense and implacable, with something shining beyond. It was as though the body of the hawk were merely a larval stage, the feathery integument of some unknown creature of the trees.
The hawks were already pursuing before they could see their prey. They flew fast and low across fields, along hedges, down woodland rides; they twisted nimbly between trees. Small birds bathing in water or in dust, or singing from a twig, or feeding away from cover, were startled into flight and were snatched suddenly from life. Sometimes they waited in ambush, or pounced downward from a height, but most of their hunting was an endless silent rushing towards something they had not yet seen. The adult male was more grey than brown, with bars of rust across a whitish chest, but in flight he could look as brown as the female. One saw these birds so briefly, and in such gloomy light. The yellow iris might gleam momentarily, the long yellow legs might flash and snap across the dark, piny air: the rest was a wild blur, a huskiness of wings trembling down through the wood, like brown water receding into haze.
Sparrowhawks hide in the dusk; in the dusk of great speed, in evening dusk, in the dusk of height and distance. They are the unseen, who come so close – till the eye touches them – then they are gone, leaving the air vibrant with their passing. Each summer I searched for their nests. I followed them from wood to wood, finding their kills, finding their bodies dangling from dark boughs, like Saxon poachers turning in the wind.
Again the crash of the keeper’s gun, nearer now, and the sound of feet approaching. Hidden deep in bracken, I would watch him go by. I never saw his face. I saw only the glint of the gun-barrel, the dead birds swinging from an unseen hand, the stained boots swishing through the grass of the ride.
 
 
Clouds deepen over the shining sky. A faint breeze comes from the south and moves the leaves of the taller trees. There is a premonitory murmur of distant thunder. The pine wood is warm and dark. The narrow columns of air between the small close-growing pines are spiced with a smell of resin. It is a strange air. There is a hovering in it, like warm breath. The woodland floor is soft with decaying twigs and pine needles the colour of dead grass. It seems porous, as though it were a lung of the earth beneath. Rabbits live here. They are feeding in the grass of the ride that shines beyond the deep pine shadow where I stand. Their ears twitch to the volcanic growl of the thunder that is nearer now and more full-throated. A hare passes close to me, unsuspecting. The sunlit edges of the northern clouds float in the liquid miniature of his eye. He bears their brightness into the shadows of the wood.
The sky darkens till it is duller than the dense blue-grey of the pine needles. The narrow boles of the trees, and their lower branches, are a purplish fawn colour, goose-fleshed and hard, like dead bark beneath a living canopy. I walk deeper into the wood, and lose my way. All is symmetrical, equally spaced, the same. There is no sky now, but at the perimeter of the wood, at the end of every line of trees, bright ovals of sky-lit country glow like fires in the mouths of caves. A few stunted birches grow between the pines, their silver scales moving before me, like a stir of fins in dark water. The fallen pine needles have their own faint shine, which the clouds cannot dim. There is no pine-smell at the centre of the wood. It was gradually lost as I walked inwards. Thunder crashes above, and slowly the rain begins. I stumble towards the last light of the north. The wood fills with the sound of rain. The air is colder, driven down by the storm. Lightning darts and flickers, like a white deer leaping between the trees. The pine boles are bleached to a dazzling whiteness that bruises to purple as the gloom returns. The thunder booms. Dense thickets of rain grow between the trees, grey and impenetrable. Beyond the wood, there is a cold smell of drenched grass and fallen bluebells; within, a warm smell of bark and leaf-mould. A garden warbler sings in the caves of darkness under the misty birches, sings endlessly over the arches of bramble. Through the hiss and roar of the rain that bows the trees, the bird pours out the pure breath of his song. It flows unbrokenly, loud and mellow and far-echoing. He sings in the shining green bubble of his own world. The whole wood is an exultant respiration of storm-driven wind and rain. It is like being inside the hollow bones of an immense bird, listening to the sudden inrush of the air and the measured heart-beat of huge wings.
A robin comes into deeper cover, and sings above my head. Bullfinches call. The bird-song has not ceased since the storm began. A willow warbler sings among the rain-quivered leaves of a sycamore sapling at the wood’s edge, where the light is gathering slowly like a pool of rainwater. The willow warbler’s tail fans out and closes against the light as he flits from twig to twig, searching for insects. He sings as he feeds, and his peering eye is like a pine-darkened rain-drop. Very far off, a turtle dove is cooing. Each pine needle is beaded with silver rain. The blue-green colour of the trees is concealed by webs of shining crystal. Slowly the light increases, but the rain falls steadily for half an hour more. The thunder comes from the north now, and the occasional blink of lightning no longer stains the retina with a tree of green veins. The light increases like the imminence of sunrise. Rabbits still feed in the sodden ride, crouched deep in the steaming grass, their fur dark and felted with the rain. A final cannonade of thunder reverberates through the wet air.
 
 
I look to the north, across the crushed bluebells of the clearing. The light, which had steadily increased as the skylarks rose again behind the passing storm, is now slowly changing. It thickens into a mist, a dim mysterious vapour that becomes a silvery fog in which the distant trees loom large and indistinct, the poplars shaped like firs. Water streams down the mossy stems of the trees. The pine needles glitter with innumerable small reflected suns. The pines have their own rain now, but in the open the rain has ceased and the sun shines coldly. Blackcaps and garden warblers sing, as they have always done, though now the song is no longer enhanced by the rain. The bluebells have a sharper scent, less cloying, cold and piercing like the water of a spring. The distant woods, which rose into heat-haze only an hour ago, are gathered away into the mist. They are autumnal, of the dusk, although the sun still shines. The woodland day is over. A tawny owl calls among the pines, where the rainy night has already begun.

The pine wood hides the sun, like a dark northern god rising in menace above the white road that falls steeply to the west, and the small green hills beyond are receding into a grey autumnal haze. The high town silvers in sunlight, and its sky is barbed with curving swifts. But already the night’s simplicity is settling upon the valley. Under the exotic flowering of the early lights, a blue Venetian dusk laps at the windows of the shadowed houses. As I watch, the high town is extinguished, and its shining sky ascends. The stiff-feathered pines shed their darkness into the still air.
A twilight of luminous birches glimmers upon the blackness of the pines. I sink into the mossy summer-woodland smell of the birch leaves. It is a sweet herbivorous breath, like the smell of rain drying away from the hot road. It rises from the wood like a corona of green mist. It is a cave that leads into another world; the subterranean, removed world of the summer night.
A dead mole lies on its back in the path, as though it had fallen from the sky. It is solid and heavy, but the pouchy fur is as soft as the skin of a peach. Its slack feet seem to crumple the air, like small white hands. Its jaws have sagged apart, and a red gape shows between. The teeth are pointed and sharp. There is no pathos in this predatory face. The mouth is held open as though the mole were panting. It is vivid and startling, like an inexplicable splash of blood.
A cuckoo calls, deep in the western silence. The rutted path curves down between dense plantations of fifteen-foot pines. My sense of direction is lost at once. A few tall and dying oaks stand high above the conifers. Redpolls fly overhead, their dry trills rippling through the warm air. All around me the indigo pines are turning black. They have a stifling intensity, as though they were holding their breath. It is comforting to touch them, the cool needles brisk to the fingers, the resinous scent starry upon the hand. Darkness is drifting slowly down from the pine branches. The silence of its soft descent is almost audible. Very remote now, thrushes and robins are singing.
A strange roaring rises from the pines, heavy and gasping, spasmodic, like the bellowing of a bull. I cannot tell whether it is close or far off. It is a forlorn, curiously instrumental sound, half bovine, half human: the call of a red deer stag. The first three or four notes are drawn out, declamatory, each one a little longer and louder than the last, an inquisitorial challenging of the night air. There is a brief pause. This is followed by three or four short barking notes, declining and deepening, becoming shorter and softer. Then the call ceases abruptly, as though suddenly muffled by a hand. Four times, with prolonged, bristling pauses of expectancy between, the vibrant, husky roaring of the stag is repeated. It seems to rise up from the earth itself, like the snarling blast of a primitive trumpet, musty with the breath of decay. It is a pent-up, hostile savagery of sound released into the dusk in long horn-like curves, anguished and unfulfilled. When the last roar has faded, there is no other noise, no movement in the trees. I can imagine the stag’s head sinking down, bowed beneath its bush of antlers, listening for the soft terror of my tread.
 
 
I go deeper into the wood. Here the trees are scattered among open spaces of bracken. There is a faint swishing. Forty yards away, between two oaks, a red deer hind stands watching me. Her fawn colour shines, a pale glow against the grey of the trees and the green of the bracken. Her long neck looks taut and strained with fear. Her head is carefully poised, her large ears quiver, her dark muzzle is held high. She has a bewildered, unicorn sadness, beautiful, doomed, and mute. After several seconds’ gazing, she bounds heavily into cover, her back legs plunging and trembling away. As the crushed bracken straightens, a tree pipit sings for the last time before sunrise, floating down from the top of a pine.
There is a rustle of roosting birds in the pale cloud of the rhododendron thicket. The red blossom is black, but the white still shines. The song of a tawny owl quavers through the hollows of the air. The owl flies northward. I can follow its trail by listening to the scolding blackbirds. As the air cools, and darkens, the owl’s song seems to deepen, echoing through the temple of the night. It begins with a single declarative note, brief, tremulous, and loud. There is a long pause, an absolute silence in which no bird calls, as though all are waiting – as I am – for the rest of the song to follow. Then it comes, circling out into the imposed silence, thrilling among the trees like a glimmer of dark blue lightning. The scolding of the blackbirds ends quite suddenly; the go to roost, and the owl begins to hunt. The western light gleams faintly between the boles of the trees in narrow vertical strips of green and yellow, like blades of tall grass. But this grass light withers quickly down, as though devoured by fire, and all is grey.
 
 
Ten minutes after sunset, deep in the heavy-swirling dusk, I hear the hoarse bass croaking of a woodcock, followed at once by its shrill bat-like chirrup. The sound comes from the north. The woodcock flies overhead, fifty feet up, moving much faster than I expected, silhouetted against the sky. Its wing-beats are quick, and rather shallow; a steady winnowing, like the flight of a noctule bat. It is a blurred shape, and I cannot see its bill. It does not fly straight. Every twenty yards or so it veers on to a different course. It calls frequently; the five-syllabled croak and then the thin piping whistle. The croak has an odd, mechanical timbre. It is a wooden stridulation, very deep-throated and dryly rasping, as a grasshopper might sound if its song were artificially slowed down. The shrill squeaking, which follows without any pause at all, seems as though it must either be produced in a different manner or come from a different bird. It is a high sniggering that carries a great distance, so that I can hear it fading down into the valley, above the line of the stream, long after the preceding croak is quite inaudible.
Five minutes later, I again hear the woodcock approaching from the north. It calls several times before it appears, flying in the same direction, but not as fast. Through the binoculars I can see that its long bill is pointing forwards at an angle of thirty degrees below the horizontal. The croaking call is uttered without any visible opening of the bill; the mandibles are parted slightly for the high-pitched chirrup. At the first note of the croak, the woodcock’s wing-beat falters. The broad wings seem to stutter for a few seconds. The bird changes course, a bulky shape rapidly twisting and turning. This brief, staccato fumbling at the air is very quickly done and difficult to see. The owl-like wings seem to hang limp and still for a moment, then they flutter erratically before resuming their normal steady pulsation.
This curious display-flight, known as roding, continues for twenty minutes. The only sounds I can hear are the occasional calling of the woodcock, the whining of mosquitoes, and the creaking of a dead leaf or twig under the weight of a mouse. The upcurving branches of the young cactus-shaped pines are tapered with a candelabra of new shoots. Their bright lime-green colour burns white in the dusk. The dark sea of the wood is phosphorescent with their pale uplifted flames. I can smell the heavy pine-lit air and the drenched summer green of the bracken.
Two crows fly heavily through the wood. Their harsh night-calls echo among the trees. A hobby glides above, silent and secret as an owl, its wings shaped like small black sails. Its fencing, darting pursuit of moths and beetles is like the nightjar’s flight. Sails suddenly furling, it drops away among the dark trees, like a thrown sickle curving back to earth. Darkness rises in the wood and floats out into the surrounding fields. Only the paths still shine. Bats feel their way deftly across the face of the sky, falling and clinging. The hobby glides from the trees, wings pricking black against the faint light of the first stars. It chases a bat, a large shadow hooding a small one. I can see nothing more, but I hear the hollow reed-sound of the stoop, and feel the cold rushing of the air.
 
 
Very far off, so quietly that I cannot be certain whether or not I am really hearing it, the churring song of a nightjar seems to furrow the smooth surface of the silence. Forgetful of paths, I plunge into the implacable night of the pines, rushing towards that narrow stream of murmuring song that may at any moment dry away. Here and there I touch the luminosity of birch bark. Twigs snap beneath my feet, flick across my face. A mist of corn comes whitely towards me, gliding up between trees that drift apart. Suddenly I am at the edge of the wood. The corn is like a white fogbank rising in front of me. The nightjar’s song is closer now, but still a long way off. Stumbling under low branches, I find a path to follow. The song grows louder; then it stops. The white ghost moths flit above the bracken. A tawny owl moans softly. Red-legged partridges call from the cornfield.
There is a sudden ‘kwoink’, a deep rich sound, like a cork being pulled from a large and echoing glass bottle. It is the flight-call of the nightjar. Something dances in the air above me, flits and bounces upon air; long tail, long wings; a blur imprinted softly, and withdrawn; the nightjar has come and gone. The last light withers. Nothing happens. The highest branch of a dead oak widens at the top. The nightjar is perching lengthwise along the branch. His body lies low and flat, but his head is held upward. There is a soft chirrup, as though his syrinx clicked and spluttered; then the song begins. It starts far away, and seems to come slowly nearer. Suddenly it is very near. It increases rapidly in speed and volume. The bill is held wide open. The upraised head of the bird is large and frog-like. It flicks quickly from side to side, and the song changes in pitch and volume, seems then to come from some more distant nightjar. It rises and falls, an unbroken flow of sound, like the reeling-in of a fishing-line, but much louder and deeper, as though it were winding in the last faint threads of light.
When heard at a distance, a nightjar’s song can seem metallic, monotonous; but among the trees, close to the ear, it has a wonderfully musical dryness of timbre. It pulsates. The pitch changes every fifteen seconds, and the change is always preceded by a very short pause, like a change of gear. The sound is dimmed momentarily, and then released. The song can be heard for half a mile on a still night; at twenty yards it is astonishingly loud. The air trembles with it. It does not die away; it gathers between the trees and flows out into the wood. The whole of the May night is coiled within this song: the dark-smelling winy fragrance of the wood, the fading fragments of dead sky, the wolfish pines glittering with the early stars, the dry freaking of a bat, the hot tweedy smell of the damp earth. It is a sound the ear can never completely lose. It seems to emerge from an earlier darkness, before there was fire, when all such harmless sounds were a comfort, a soothing for the fever of fear that scorched man’s sleep in the woods.
The song stops. Just as it seemed as though it would never end, it snaps abruptly away. It seems to pierce the gloom with a visible, decisive spark. After a few seconds of the intense velvet darkness that follows the vanishing of a brilliant light, the nightjar leaps from his perch, his soft-flying wings reaching high above his head. The song falls back into his throat as he rises. He glides downward, and it shakes out in deep bubbling trills, runs out in sudden spurts and rushes, as though he were going down into deep water. There is a sharp smacking sound, like the smacking fall of a fish on to the surface of a pond. The nightjar rises again, and I can see that he is clapping his wings together above his back. Five times this loud wet clapping of the wings is repeated. It is a hollow sound, like the clapping of cupped hands or the slapping fall of a plank upon mud. It is like an invocation to the night, the ceremonial summoning of a god. A second bird, the female, calls close by. The two nightjars dance upon the sword-points of the stars. They swoop between the pines on the far side of the path. The wing-clapping begins again. One bird chases a big moth, diving down into greater silences, deeper shadows. They disappear. The pine crests are sharp and uncompromising against the sky. All else is very dark. The earth is abandoned to the incoming night.
 
 
The darkness of the wood is so intense that it seems to shine with a dim, skeletal light. There is a sense of hidden life, of endless movement, hunger, combat, like the dark warmth of the tidal blood. A nightjar twirls above. Behind it, leaping forward with wings curving back like immense sickle claws, is a hobby. I cannot tell whether it is pursuing the nightjar or swooping at the moths the nightjar feeds upon. It leaves a wake of stars. The night-darkened mind of the hawk seems to glow like the nebula of a distant city, as though the celestial glitter of its eyes shone from within.
A tawny owl beats down the dark ride. Many points of light, visible to him though I cannot see them, gleam in the grass and the bracken like a dew of fallen stars beneath the shadow of his wings. Something shrieks as the owl descends, bringing the endless darkness that follows the shreds of fire. Somewhere a life hangs limp; the still blood, in its continent of fur, hanging from the cold talons that have drawn the last flame. The death of an animal is very quiet, whether it is the slow suffocation of disease or the sudden leap from life of the slain. The owl’s hollow voice floats like a sail in the dark stream of the ride.
 
 
The nightjar sings again on the far side of the pines. The sound is pure and remote now. Like the darkness, it is colder, harder, pierced by the bristling stars. I go down through the wood with the song fading back behind me, fading to a faint line of sound, a thread that thins and frays and then snaps away. My feet slither on the sun-polished earth that still glimmers with light. The sky is softly black, bending over me like the moist eye of a deer.
The road slopes down, cold now, but webbed with hollows of warmth between tall hedges. The rich smell of the wood withdraws. Below me are the lights of the town, like a ship that can never depart.

The air is cold. The last owls call softly in the ebb of night. The drenched leaves are drab, the blossom limp, the grass grey with dew. A thin film of light is forming upon the surface of the garden. Rooks caw in the lifting sky. One by one the songs of birds shine through. Hedge sparrows, robins, blackbirds, thrushes, wrens, sing with growing vehemence and power. The air moves, and slowly rises, is translated into light. Starlings run over the wet grass, their flesh-coloured feet dark-webbed with moisture. The black swallows are conjured into blue. The immense cloud of sapphire light that is the sun moves up into the eastern sky. A forest of shadows falls suddenly across the shining lawns.
The first cuckoo calls in the hollow air of the owls. Bullfinches glow in the white hawthorn blossom. I cycle through the waking town, leaving the gold and silver garden-voices of the blackbirds and thrushes, rising up into the singing blue of the skylarks. Moorhens call from the roadside ponds, their red and yellow bills parting the reeds, their black and white tails flashing and vanishing. The trailing boughs of the weeping willows are slender, arrowy, like slow green rain arrested. A wren sings, and drifts down like a sharp brown leaf, shivering with the force of his trill. The hoarse calling of young starlings mingles with the answering harshness of the adult birds as they bring food to the gaping beaks. The introspective pines are dark with unsurrendered night.
 
 
The shadowed farmyards swoop and rise through an endless undulation of swallows and martins. A pied wagtail dances his dark feet upon the puddled water, seizing the first insects in their low bewildered flight. Maned by the morning mist, a sleeping shire horse stands. Mushrooms have grown beneath him, wandering upward where his feathered hooves have shone. A dead mouse dries in the sun, carried high in the jaws of a roan-wet stoat. A sudden breeze shivers through the flowing barley, and the poplar leaves patter and shine. The running hare has eyes of sunlight. A kestrel rises slowly from the dead branch of an ash. His small shadow circles out above the steaming fields. He gleams and fades, glinting like a golden cross.
The aromatic constellations of cow parsley glimmer like a white mist in the meadows and the grass verges. Goldfinches sing in the cottage gardens, like a tinkle of chilled wine. The wallflowers have a warm and smothering smell, entranced with bees. The village sky is cold with the sharp blades of hurtling swifts. The song of a greenfinch ripens among the apple blossom. The votive churchyard yews are slow to assume the sun.
 
 
The day has drifted down from the pure height of the morning, and the first white shower clouds move slowly through the sky. The road lifts, and the air suddenly changes. Long fields and orchards reach out to the horizon. Distant hills fringe the great circle of the earth and sky. The wide-spaced brown and yellow farmhouses rise slowly from the upland plain. Each one is overshadowed by its ivory cloud of horse chestnut trees in blossom. The trees are visible far off. They are a dim white haze that grows larger as I approach, but does not come any nearer. They have an overhanging look, like slow white smoke declining. The darkness between the boughs is bleak and wintry. The dark green leaves droop as though they were already dying, but the white flowers stand erect, pagoda-like, priested by bees. The duck-paddled mud of the farmyards, the feathered ponds, the wing-creaking barns, the mossy roofs, the curtain-fluttering windows big with sky: all are shadowed and borne upward by the slow-burning horse chestnuts aspiring into clouds.
The road shines across the flat land. The farms sink slowly down till only the white smoke of their blossom remains. In the darkness of memory the majestic horse chestnuts will rise again, monumentally still, standing like phantom white stallions above the fallen air of the empty stables.
Tall elms tower over the narrow lanes and at the edges of the wide fields. The air seems to move perpetually in those dark trees, rising into the high branches, floating the black rooks upward. Cock pheasants strut in the green corn, arrogant-coloured, copper-bronze. They stamp the arrows of their footprints down into the damp earth, and their scaly toes lift tiny fragments of soil that fall and glitter in the sun. The corn is as soft to the touch as a breeze moving gently against the fingers.
 
 
Where three roads meet, there is a small grove of slender larches and Scots pine. Sometimes a chaffinch sings here, or blue tits call, but there are no nests. Pine cones lie in the lane throughout the year, cryptic and strangely beautiful, like the symbols of an unknown language. They are shattered to fruitless seed by the pressure of passing traffic. Within the grove there is always a smell of sun-warmed resin, whether or not the sun is shining. The spirit of this place is elusive, it escapes into the surrounding air. Yet something breathes upon the edge of vision, like rain beginning. It touches the senses lightly, then departs. At a distance the grove seems to have entity, the self-possession of a single tree. But go in, and at once the wholeness leaps apart, fragmenting into more than individual trees. In spring, the grove smells of summer; in summer it smells of other summers, of the past. It is always beyond the present heat.
Skylarks sing in the shining haze of blue above the cornfields. They spiral up, hovering high and small, clinging to the sky with trembling wings. For five minutes they are bent to the wind, tense and tightly strung. Then they sink down, falling slowly towards the green earth that rises to meet them. A foot above the field they skim and flutter, making the corn fan out beneath. Suddenly they drop down, and are hidden. But soon they are running forward again, unable to be still, rising into the climbing flight of their song, their endless exaltation.
 
 
An avenue of limes appears in the upland plain. There is no gate. I turn in from the road, and the way between the spreading trees is damp and narrow, covered with fallen branches, nettles, and dead leaves. At the end, where there should be a house, the sky descends. Only rubble remains. The air smells of nettles and brick-dust. The morning light has gone. The ruins sink deeper under the gloom of the massed clouds.
Slowly the rain begins, the sky dissolving into smudgy grey, green light falling over the dark elms. I shelter in the untouched barn. The bales of hay and straw are stacked high, a nebulous glow, a soft yellow shining that fades up into prickly dusk. The cold smell of the rain drifts in, mingling with the musty, ancient smell of the barn. The lower half of the open door bangs shut in a sudden gust of wind and rain; the upper half becomes a square, framing the brilliant elms, the changing, rainsailed sky. The gleam of the bales rises in the greater darkness, like a breath of candle-flame. At the western end of the barn, constellations of dazzling light pierce through chinks in the dark boards. The flow of light from the doorway washes the wooden beams and posts till they shine like stone. The rain-cloud hangs above, as though it would enter; then it moves eastward, and blue sky appears. The rain drills heavily down upon the roof. A swallow strikes in through the wet air of the doorway, igniting the darkness with a sudden flare of blue. It swoops, and rises to the rafters, feeds its young in their clinging nest, swoops, and flies out into the rain.
Swallows and martins twitch endlessly through the rainlit air between the barn and the shrouded trees at the edge of the field. The harp-shaped elms are inhabited by the wind. They have a life of their own out there, cold and strange and glistening, like huge birds. Here in the barn, all is sleepy. The sparrows’ chirping voices are bright nails in the dry grain of the air. Nothing changes but the shape of my own thoughts.
The chance of the rain has sent me into this barn, a place I would not otherwise have seen and to which there may never be any reason to return. I possess a sudden freedom. I have entered an illumination like the sculptured moonlight of a dream, a cave within the vagary of the streaming day. These things around me, in their unguarded plainness, have now an ethereal beauty, as though they shone in the momentary revelation of the lightning flash.
The floor of the barn is simply the dry earth, uneven, crusted hard, drifted with a film of dust, spilt grain, crushed hay, the distillation of forgotten summers. Sparrows fly down and feed close to my feet, their eyes gleaming as they glance up at me. A distant blackbird sings, a vista of endless orchards opening through the reflection of his voice. Up in the darkness of the roof, the rain murmurs. The elms have lost their light. They look huddled and disconsolate now, their branches parting to reveal the brilliant duck-floating eye of a pond. A wet starlight of cow parsley shines in the green flow of the grass at the roots of the tossing trees. Slowly the sky takes shape in the flooded farmyard, blue and white water clouding over the brown earth.
Wind-wrenched, the half-door staggers open. The sun shines suddenly, spearing the water with a blade of light, printing black shadows. The rain seems to die away upward, shrinking back into the whiter clouds. I go out, and stand in the rain-fretted hollow of the sunlit air. I look back into the barn and see, for the first time, a white owl perched on a high beam. Its closed face has an implacable calm, dream-webbed, the perfect mask. It seems to breathe through a snorkel, being itself submerged, far down below the surface of the day.
 
 
The rubble of the fallen house has not been changed by the rain. There is a feeling of enclosure here, as though the dust of the walls still hovered in the drying air. This dust was a Tudor hall, timbered, angular, dark-windowed, facing the avenue of limes and the generations of horsemen riding home. The planted bushes and flowers of the garden are hidden deeper each year by the encroachment of thorn and bramble, by the shining victory of grass. A bullfinch alights on a stem of ash. The dense brick-red colour of his breast is reflected as a faint orange glow in the wet grey-purple of the ash bark.
Hidden by the elms of the pond, there is a small orchard of plum and apple trees, untouched for many years. The wind-fallen fruit is scanty and sour, and is eaten only by the birds. The grass is long, sere, and uncut, sighing with a fretful whiteness of wild chervil. The trees slant and twist upward. Their boles are grey and mossy. The place is quite unpossessed now. It has sloughed off the human presence. It seems to be too late for growth here, too soon for decay. It is beyond the reach of human love. Bullfinches call among the uncertain blossom. A blackbird sings. A surface has formed here; there is a bloom upon the air. A willow warbler flits from tree to tree, its song descending; but it does not stay. Nothing stays. A lurking jay flies through, and close by a cuckoo calls. Swallows touch the outer sky, but do not come any nearer. The light seems to be draped from tree to tree, like cobwebs that have been undisturbed for many years. The fruit may be sour and small, but the orchard itself has ripened. It is like a sphere of sequestered light and air. In time to come it will fall or be destroyed. But to-day it hangs in its own rich mellow ripeness from the suspending sky.
 
 
I go back to the road. Woodpigeons fly up from the trees, hundreds of clattering grey birds turning mauve as they rise into the sunlight, their white wing-bars and white-ringed necks gleaming. Then the sun is clouded over, and the woodpigeons turn black. Dark nets of distant rain trawl slowly through the light. The far hills are the colour of grey sea. Golden dandelions glow in the wet grass. I cycle through the gleam of rain and the reflections of white clouds. The green verges shine beneath the burnishing wings of the swallows. The ashen scent of the may mingles with the fragrance of the drying road.
In the corner of a field, penned in by hurdles, a pig sleeps upon straw. Its big floppy ears cover its eyes, like shading hands. It has the unreal appearance of something that has been discarded, like a blotched and bursting bolster. Its nose twitches, its ears question the silence; then slowly life rumbles back. But this does not alter the stranded, sacrificial shape, the look of helplessness.
Above the pig, a turtle dove rests drowsily upon a hurdle. A yellowhammer sings in the hedge, turning his brilliant buttercup-yellow head from side to side. The long ears of a hare are waking in the field. The hare casts about among the furrows, creeping slowly over the big brown clods, dragging its back legs stiffly forward. One large eye, the dark pupil visible in the clear light, watches me unwinkingly. It is raised above the level of the fawn face, bulbous, fearful, and very remote. There is no sign that it can see me. The hare seems to grovel, placating the earth, close to it, clumsy in movement, as though something had been broken, in body as well as in spirit. When I go nearer, it sinks small. Its tall ears bend, and slowly decline. Then it is off, lifting over the furrows lightly, spurting away in little puffs of brown earth, thudding deep into the long grass of the pasture, into what it does not yet know will be a hiding-place.
 
 
The still distances of the upland plain are slowly hidden by trees, and I come to rich meadows where cattle graze. The deep chrome-yellow glow of the buttercups is so dazzling that the eye cannot focus on an individual flower. Speedwell rises through the grass, like blue flood-water. A magpie swaggers and sidles among the buttercups, and his shape is faintly reflected in their liquid yellow shining. His white markings glisten in the sun. His head and back and wings are stained with the vivid colours of ink, black, blue-black, or blue. As he moves, they flicker with rainbow gleams of green and violet.
The footpath leads to a wood in the middle of the meadows. It is an intense, concentrated place, where the bright green leaves of ash and sycamore and willow are sombred over by the inner core of shadowy cypresses and firs. The wood is crossed diagonally by a broad green ride that curves from corner to corner. The grass is damp and shiny, and is never cut. The sun does not reach down to it, for the ride is enclosed by lines of tall Douglas and Noble firs. The branches of these great trees have never been lopped. They trail to the ground, they touch and entangle. They have an atmosphere of decay, a charnel breath, as though they were hung with huge bats cloaked in their inverted wings. They are unmoving, unchangeable, possess by a green dusk that is like a moss growing upon the light. Elders have risen beneath, from seeds that have fallen in the droppings of roosting starlings. There are many stinging nettles, shaped like the first above them. The ground is soft and spongy with dead leaves. Under a dark Noble fir there are three large cones. They are heavy, and cold, with a mineral density, as though they had been formed in the strata of the leaves. The bark of the tree is hard and rugose, as enduring and impervious as rhinoceros hide. Here in the shadowed wood I seem to have lost the day. I have stepped into another season, which is neither winter nor spring. It is as though a Victorian summer had been embalmed here for a hundred years.
A single Douglas fir, broken at the top yet growing still, like the shattered mast of a ship become a tree again, reaches far up into the light. Its highest branches shine above the other trees, like a palm above the sea. Thirty feet up, pressed close to the bole of the fir, a long-eared owl is perching. It is a wooden shape, rigid, stretched-out, looking too thin and gaunt to be an owl. It is like a tall, upright cone, a growth of the tree. The tufts of feathers, which look like ears, are erect, vertical, very close together on the top of its head. Its eyes are open, looking down at me. In the fir shadows, they shine with a deep honey-coloured glow, a rich golden-orange. Seeing it has been discovered, the owl turns and – without noise or effort – sinks suddenly down into darkness. There is a displacement of air among the shadows, an adumbration of wings. Bullfinches are calling beyond the dark fortress of the firs, in the lost present. A blackcap’s song has a bubbling, swift-running radiance, like fish-scales flashing. There is a sound of mobbing, of scolding birds pursuing an owl. It is very far off. It seems to come to me through the growth-rings of many years, as though I were standing at the heart of a tree.
 
 
It is a relief to emerge into the warmth of the late evening sun, to leave the subterranean light, the oppressive swamp-dusk of the firs. The ride crosses a plantation of small larches. There is a smell of recent rain. The wet green larches shine with the songs of birds. Somewhere a cuckoo calls, a beautiful monotony of sound floating to silence on the marisma of the bluebells. The pure green song of a willow warbler descends from a larch, a bright cascade of notes drifting down through the daffodil richness of a blackbird’s pondering voice. There is a line of tall trees at the end of the ride. A bronze light shines in the brilliant green of the oak leaves. A moorhen calls from the cloudless blue of a pond. The song of a blackcap rises from the marshy undergrowth of the brambles. It is like a small white fountain rising, an ascending curve of hurrying notes that rushes upward to end with a sudden flourish, like the sun flying through water.
As I return to the road, the sky darkens with cloud, and the slow summer rain begins. The sunlit brightness of the wood moves away into a smoke of blue shadow. The dark horse chestnut leaves are harsh with rain, and a cold wind rises, battering the icons of the blossom.
The road leads to a hill, and the plain below is hidden in the grey wake of the rain-clouds. There is nothing beyond. The day is over. The white may smells only of the rain.
I cycle downhill, freewheeling under the low branches of the dripping trees, falling slowly through the caves of green spray and the flowing blue flight of the misty swallows. The breathless smell of the woods surges through the wet air. Green fields stream up and meet above my head.
The fine rain is like a cloud of twigs parting endlessly in front of my face. Strange distorted trees stride past. I plunge deep into the darkness of the valley: wet stars, owls calling, the forlorn bark of a fox. The white parsley flutters at the wheels. There is a prickling of black swifts in the grey river sky. The Lombardy poplars have grown tall with night. I am lost in the shining forest of the rain.

The sun shone, and a sharp wind of light blew in my face, like the hot shuddering of a white sail above the green downland. The hills to the south were dark, receding in the wave-like ridges, fading from grey to blue and out into misty air. Those nearest seemed to be soaring away, those beyond to come slowly forward. The truly remote stood in the peace of their silence, belonging not to this landscape but to another time and place.
Below, on the slope of the downs, was a small wood, dark with the clouded green of the oaks, light with the feathery swaying of an ash, the white of the may, and a quiver of emerald larches. The warm-throated songs of the blackbirds drifted towards me in the breeze, audible only when the larks above were silent.
The meadow to the south was large and far-reaching, curving down to a green skyline that glowed beneath the taint of distant smoke. Swallows hawked above this field of rustling green and yellow light, and the wind hunted within it. The wind came up-hill, moving through the grass, sifting out into long ripples like the swaying of the sea. Sometimes it flowed evenly upward to break at the field’s edge, a thin, invisible wave of air. The south wind rose, and moved upon the hill of grass with a soft, insistent motion, coursing through it with long white lightnings, feathering above it with an oar-like sweeping. The tall grass bent over to whiteness, like shining falls of sunlit hair.
 
 
Late in the afternoon, the grass began to smell of hay. The rising wind was flashing away the greenness to a seethe of white. Bees droned in the clover, and there was a low, dancing haze of butterflies. I went down the hill, through the deep grass that spread out behind me in a shining wake, till I came to a group of bending pines. Two fox cubs appeared from a hole in the bracken. I stood still. The only sound was the rise and fall of the ocean wind in the tall pines. The cubs stood and watched me, their big eyes moist and shining. Both were startled when I raised the binoculars; one went down into the hole, the other stayed watching. Its eyes were pale blue, big blue irises surrounding small black pupils, brilliant in the fawn of its face. It tried to smell or hear something it could understand. Its long, striped ears kept folding and twitching. It had the round-eyed, uncomprehending look that all young animals have. Occasionally it ducked its head down and swung it from side to side. Then it went quickly and quietly back into the hole, big paws soft and clumsy in the dry earth.
 
 
Slowly the May afternoon declined into a summer evening. Rabbits fed in the grass, moving out with the spreading shadow of the hillside wood. There were clouds far to the south, but the sky was clear above. Only a few shavings of cirrus glittered in the blue. The wood was untouched, serene with song. Its green shade was like the cool green clasp of water. Something seemed to be growing and ripening there within, like the endless flow and ascension of light from the fallen sky of a pond.
The wood had been unchanged since sunrise. The hawthorns were still white with blossom; the ground beneath was covered by a mist of white petals, like a reflection of the flowers above. The ash trees had a lighter, fresher shade. A cuckoo called. The cooing of woodpigeons ebbed away from the edge of the wood. Many blackbirds sang, a rambling music, like sunlit summer rain. The voice of a nightingale pierced out with anguished sweetness from the white may. The bird’s throat shook with song, as though something inside were struggling to get free. The loud whistling power of the notes seemed unrelated to the constriction that produced them, seemed too pure and rich to have passed through the narrow syrinx of a bird.
I went closer to the wood. The green cloud of the trees sank into solidity, like a spent kite sauntering down. Between the bars of the gate I could smell the warm breath of the ferny ride. The interior of a wood is forever beyond our reach, so sunlit and complete, brimming with its own secret life. As soon as we enter, the trees move apart, the light changes, colour gains, something drifts imperceptibly away to again become the distance, lost in what is now the outer sky, the unattainable.
 
 
I circled the singing green of the trees till I came to a narrow path the rabbits had made. Stooping low, ducking beneath branches, I went guiltily into the wood. At once the wind faded up into the high trees, the air was still, the light overgrown with oak and hawthorn and elder. Jays called in the cool dusk of the shade, and a bullfinch fretted at the edge of silence. The island wood seemed to float across the down, like a raft. The silence grew, took shape, became a cool tower in the heat of the brilliant sky. It was a shading silence. Within it, I felt strangely safe. From the far side of a dead ash, a green woodpecker called softly, the sound half-smothered by the bulk of the tree. It drummed on the bark, a quiet rattling, like the drumming of a distant great spotted woodpecker. Then it called again, softly, hoarsely, as though talking to itself. Yet the sound was ardent, intense. When I moved, the two woodpeckers flew silently away. On this island I was a stranger, an intruder.
 
 
I walked deeper into the wood, treading furtively, uneasily. Crows flew slowly above, looking down, dark and menacing. The sun had gone from the lower trees. The air was cool and damp. There was a misty smell, and nothing shone. A woodpigeon lay so naturally in a patch of soft grass, as though on eggs, that at first I did not know that it was dead. I picked it up. Its grey back gleamed blue as it passed through the light. Its open eyes had a brilliant glaze, the pupils dark in the vivid blue of the irises. Looking at them was like staring in through the sky-filled windows of an empty house. The feathers were soft and loose, the whole body soft with flesh. I let it fall into the grass. It landed with a hollow slap. Acorns rattled in its crop. It died before it needed them. If left alone, it would become a tree.
I came to a sunlit clearing barred with long shadows. A turtle dove sang beneath the oaks, breathing out its gentle, amorous purr, a deep and leafy sound. The bracken swished, and separated, and a fox suddenly appeared in the narrow path ahead of me. My smell must have been far more pungent and choking to him than his glandular stench was to me, but for a long time he did nothing. He had been moving very slowly, as though pondering, perhaps not yet fully awake after his daylight sleep. He came forward a few paces. Watching his pale yellow and white face, slightly darker in colour about the amber shining eyes, I seemed to feel the soft mask of the fox pass over me. I felt the fetid breath, the questing nose that never sleeps, the hot cloak of senses so keen as to be unbearable to man. I stifled in the mask of the fox, as though I was his earth, his refuge. He looked out through my eyes. Then this strange feeling faded; and there was the fox again, a yard in front of me. Without any sign that he recognised me as an enemy, he walked slowly past and vanished into the bracken.
 
 
In the middle of the wood, just as I had thought that I must now be moving outwards again towards the perimeter, I entered a small plantation of larches. It was eight o’clock. The cobwebby larches enclosed an intense stillness. The plantation was dark inside, quiet and dark. There was a feeling of sudden descent, a sense of falling forward into a different place, another time, another air. Nothing sang. The light was unused, relapsing slowly into dusk. On the far side of the trees a misty brightness hovered beyond the gloom.
The stillness was broken by a flow of wings. A brown bird flitted low, a fanning of dry quills moving the fronds of the green bracken. Silently it rushed upward and landed on the raised antler of a fallen oak. Its long brown tail streamed out behind it like a wake of shining brown water. It was a hen sparrowhawk. Her back was ridged high, her curved head pecked the air. Pale upon the early gloom, flung up against it like a stranded wave, she shone with involuntary light. The yellow iris of her eye seemed to fade slowly down to red, as though it were reflecting a sunset. It burned towards me, searing through the dusk.
The hawk was never still. Her long legs trembled, her narrow toes clutched frantically at the bark. She quivered on the tines of the dead tree, like an autumn leaf before it falls. It was neither fear nor rage that made her shiver in this way. She was lifted by a dream of movement. In her mind she was still flying. The poplar of her muscles moves always in the wind of flight; it will never be calm till it is felled by death.
I took one step forward. She dived from the tree, and rose away towards the far side of the plantation, where the faint lines of light between the larches were now overgrown by dusk. She flicked the air with the splayed quills of her broad wings, as though it were too hot to touch. She flew with a phantasmal buoyancy and deftness, curving the shining snake of her flight between the distant trees. She crossed the last strands of sky; she was a dark feather laid upon the sinking sun; then she was gone.
 
 
I left the twilight of the larch plantation, and came out into the more open woodland, where the sun was still shining in the tops of the tallest trees. Some blackbirds were singing, others were scolding before going to roost. The shadow of night’s silence was slowly eclipsing the sounds of the day. A chaffinch called at the edge of the wood, and then a mistle thrush. The bracken moved in the wind and pecked lightly at my hands. A male sparrowhawk glided softly up from the downs to the south, like an arrow of feathery dusk drifting under the surface of the light. He rose to perch in an oak. As he landed, his long tail – barred with brown and white – spread out into a triangle of brown mist, then closed suddenly to grey. A frail cry, which seemed to trail up from the roots of the tree, pierced the resumed singing of the blackbirds: ‘keer, keer, keer, keer’: a bleating, forlorn shape of a sound. He saw me watching him, and he hopped along the branch till he was hidden by the bole of the tree. He was hidden, yet I could feel him trembling there. I could imagine his small lizard-like head pouncing forward and listening to the inimical stillness of the grey bark, while his gloom-piercing eyes spiralled out their rings of yellow fire into the ambush of the leaves.
After a minute of fear had slowly diminished him, the hawk went deeper into the wood. The trees were far below the sunlight now, and he could fly higher. He twisted silently away between the dark tree-tops, and perched on the dead branch of an oak, just out of sight. I had to move an inch or two to see him plainly. At once he was flying again. The human eye had scorched him. He retreated, flinging rapidly away like a small brown cloak thrown forward by the wind. Briefly the late sun reddened the bark-colour of his back, and made golden the dim sunset of his breast. He darted into a copse of silver birches, where pale light was floating on the rising dusk. Dodging to left and right between the trees, he stabbed away from me. Very far off, I heard him call, most mournful and despondent of sounds, a fast shrill whinnying that moved erratically among the birches, rising and falling. It was muffled, as though it were being made with the bill tightly closed. It was a loud, clear sound, yet frail; ‘kee, kee, kee, kee’, endlessly repeated, varying in pitch, running up into a grasshopper-like trill, then slowing and slurring. It was nasal, beaky, coming from high and far up in the curved, narrow head of the frightened hawk. He kept out of sight, twitching backwards and forwards behind the trees, crying out his simple emotion – of fear, or of summons to his mate – like an endless frenetic song. The sound raced faster, flew madly through the wood, then fled to the south, fading and sinking away. It stopped. There was a plaintive, pleading ‘kee-u, kee-u, kee-u’, with a soft rising inflection, like a whimpered reproach. Then only the wind, endlessly drifting the call of the hawk through the dark trees.
The male sparrowhawk lives very close to the edge of things. He is a primitive, an aboriginal among birds, savage in killing because his power is small. His long legs look thin and fragile, like stems of amber. He snatches his prey, bears it down, grips it insanely as though he fears its life will swell up in his foot, will swell up and burst and overwhelm him. He roosts late, in high dark trees, floating to his perch at dusk. The wind frightens him, as it moves the leaves across his eyes. He knows the tread of a man, and flies from it before he sees his fear. Every movement of the wood reaches out and touches him with a long finger. The need to serve the nest, to bring food for his mate and for the young birds, can make him less timid for a time. But unmated, or when nesting is over, he reverts to what he was: a wild-leaping gazelle of the air, whose thin yellow eyes pierce all shadow, whom all steps tread upon, whom all sounds deafen, whom all sights dazzle; the flying nerve of the wood.
 
 
The downland grass was already grey, and the sky was heavy with the rain-clouds that were moving up from the south. The wood sank into night. The white hawthorn blossom seemed to drift down through the twilight, descending slowly through the darkness of the trees. One by one the calls of the stone curlews rose in the long valleys of the downs, like fossil voices released from the strata of the chalk. Their dry exhalations remained suspended in the air above, so that the renewed calls rose always into the same ancient outline, shaping upon the darkness a stonehenge of haunting sound. A short-eared owl flew past, beating softly over the grass, turning its head to watch me with wondering, moonlit eyes.
 
 
I entered the wood again, and went down towards the road. The warm night dampened into rain that slowly became colder and straighter. I scrambled and slithered along the broad ride. The wet trees were heavy and steep with darkness, and the ground seemed more uneven than it had been earlier. I heard a bird singing in the open woodland to the west, and I stopped to listen. It was a wood lark. I plunged into the bracken, and blundered towards the distant sound. The bracken was as wet as an overgrown pond. Wet bushes loomed, and slashed, and went past. The ground began to rise. The lark was singing above a slope where there were few large trees and many open spaces. It circled above me, singing in the cold and drenching rain. The night breathed down upon my upturned face. I felt that the heavy splashes of the rain should sparkle, but there were black. In wide circles, rising and falling, the wood lark drifted and sang. The cold dissolution of the air was exhilarating. All around me was a blackness of rustling leaves that smelt of the sea.
The wood lark’s song is less abandoned and more melancholy-sounding than the skylark’s. Each new cadence is elaborated from the one that went before. The bird seems to ponder each phrase before shaping it into song. He sings it, lets it fall, recovers it, lets it fall, then lets it lie where it fell.
For twenty minutes I stood beneath the circling lark. He did not come down, nor was there any break in his song. There was no point in my staring up into the darkness, but I always did so, as though seeking a sudden transparency. It was a wonder to me that so small a fragment of life could fly in complete darkness, and in heavy rain, breathing so carefully, skilfully, out into nothing, for nothing, to nothing, but to be itself. When I was down in the wet road, deep down in the hollow of the night, I could still hear the song of the wood lark fading upwards like a ring of stars in the distant wood that seemed so far above me.
