
"Interim"Disclaimer: Harry Potter
characters and situations belong to JKR, her publishers, and Warner
Brothers.Much of the dialogue in part 3 is quoted
directly from Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
and Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire. I
repeat: I did not write the Shrieking Shack scene. I just changed the
point of view.Summary: Peter spends twelve
years as Scabbers Weasley. Remus gets dragged back into the magical
world by Harry. And Sirius searches for his long-missing sanity. Note: This is a sequel to my
story Darkness Dying. It ought to stand alone, however.Warning: For plotlessness.
Lack of originality. And twisting timelines. Also, this story
is not canon-compliant with OotP, HBP, or DH as it was written before
their publication.December 12, 1981 - September 1,
1993Wormtail staggered awkwardly out of the
sewer. He knew that he would never get over the degrading, debasing
experience of being deprived of his meal by a pack of rats. They
were more vicious than usual last night, he reflected as he
scampered through the sunlight to a damp, shadowed corner behind a
staircase. Perhaps because it was a full moon? Are non-magical
animals affected by the full moon?I wish they were magical. They'd
recognize me as a wizard. They wouldn't dare take my pathetic
excuse for breakfast! They'd know that I could dispose of them with
a flick of my wand!Wormtail rested his weary head on one
front paw. The other front paw still rather sore, though perhaps six
weeks had passed since the… accident.You have a gift for understatement,
Wormtail. You didn't know how to cast the spell and you killed
twelve people instead of just giving yourself enough space to
disappear. Some mistake. On the other hand, getting Sirius
framed for the whole mess had been a stroke of genius.Wormtail regretted that he had, in a
manner of speaking, ended the lives of twelve Muggles. He did not,
however, regret that Sirius Black had taken the blame. A lifetime
ago, when Wormtail had still called himself Peter (a human name he
had since renounced), he had joined forces with a powerful wizard in
the hopes that by doing so he would be able to protect his friends.
But Sirius, bloody Sirius, thinking himself smarter than the rest of
the world combined, had insisted that Peter be Lily and James'
Secret-Keeper. The plan had backfired in more ways than Wormtail
would have thought possible, and here he was, unable to resume his
human form.Perhaps, now that Sirius is safe in
Azkaban…No. That was nothing but wishful
thinking. He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named had told his followers that
Wormtail had the information that would lead to the Potters'
downfall. And when He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named had died, or at least
vanished, along with Lily and James, He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named's
followers had placed the blame squarely on the shoulders of the
informant.Perhaps Remus…No. No matter how glad Remus might be
to see Wormtail alive again, he would not be able to protect him from
the many followers of the Dark Lord who had evaded capture. An army
of wizards trained in Dark Magic was in no way comparable to a
handful of smart-mouthed Slytherins who thought it would be fun to
hex a Gryffindor.Wormtail would become human again only
if He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named returned to power and told his followers
that his inability to kill Harry Potter had had nothing to do with a
certain young spy.Harry. I always knew that kid wasn't
normal. I tried to fuss over him because everyone else did, but I
never liked him.His thoughts were not entirely true. He
had liked Harry. Everyone had liked Harry. But it would be much
simpler to adjust to life as a rat if he did not think of the few
people he would miss. Harry. Remus. Mother. Shaking himself slightly, Wormtail
returned to the matter at hand: he needed food. He also needed news
of the wizarding world. He had been lucky enough to overhear a Muggle
explaining that "the man who caused the explosion on November first
was sent to jail," but he had heard no real reports of the
intricacies of the situation. There was no question: he had to get to
a wizarding region.He stared at the sewer in disgust. He
did not want to go back there, with the Muggle rats and the stench
and the darkness.As he stared, though, a tattered scrap
of paper caught his eye. He attempted to study it without looking too
obvious. Rats can't read, after all. A bus schedule! It was
a bus schedule, and nearby was a bus stop.Several uncomfortable fume-filled
stowaway hours later, Wormtail arrived at the entrance to Diagon
Alley. He had to wait until two busily chatting wizards opened the
entrance to scamper inside, but once there he breathed as much of a
sigh of relief as a rat could produce.The rest of the day passed pleasantly
in large part because Wormtail was able to eat his fill when a young
witch's summoning charm went wrong and scattered a pile of wares
from the bakery along the length of the street. Savoring the
sensation of a full stomach, Wormtail found an out-of-the-way nook in
which to relax until he felt ready to tackle his other problems.Just when he decided to put off his
quest for information, though, opportunity presented itself. As a
tall, thin wizard walked past so hurriedly that the small boy by his
side had to trot to keep up, a voice from further down the alley
hollered "ARTHUR!" The thin wizard looked annoyed, but returned
the greeting. Wormtail noted that both men wore Ministry robes. In a
past life, he, too, had been involved in the Ministry, but thankfully
he had not known these two. "Are you trying to get away from me,
Arthur? You seem to be in an awful hurry."Arthur shook his head. "Percy and I
have plans today. Don't we, Percy?"The boy nodded firmly. "We're going
to get ice cream."The other wizard smiled benignly. "I'll
try not to let Ministry business get in the way of ice cream.""It's all right," the boy--
Percy-- said a little too quickly. "The Ministry is important. I
want to join the Ministry when I grow up.""Do you!" The other wizard was
clearly taken by the child, who, while he looked little more than
five years old, spoke clearly and precociously."This will only take a moment,
Percy," Arthur interrupted. Wormtail crept forward to listen more
closely and was gravely disappointed to learn that Arthur and his
colleague only meant to discuss a shipment of nose-biting teacups
which had found their way into a Muggle department store. Percy, too,
seemed to lose interest rather swiftly. He shifted boredly on his
feet. Apparently, even precocious children with parents in the
Ministry had short attention spans.Wormtail thought it best to retreat
before Percy saw him. There was no telling how the odd little boy
would react to a dirty, grungy, lame rat.Unfortunately, his movements caught
Percy's eye. Percy looked at his father and then, as if he dared
not disturb him, looked back at Wormtail. Wormtail returned the boy's
steady gaze and then, as a show of good faith, gathered his energy to
skip over his tail as magical rats sometimes did. Each time his
weight landed on his sore front paw he winced, but he continued the
show.Percy giggled and squatted down to get
a closer look. "Hullo, rat," he said in his childish voice.Hullo, meal ticket, Wormtail
thought."Can you do other tricks?" Wormtail
stood on his hind feet and waved his front feet in the air. The boy's
brown eyes widened. "You understand me!" Wormtail bobbed his head
up and down in a rat's approximation of a nod."Percy!" Arthur reached down to
pull his son to his feet, but Percy slipped out of his father's
grasp. "Look, Daddy. A rat.""Yes, a rat. Don't you want ice
cream?" Again, he tried to pull his son away, but the boy shook his
head empathetically."Can I keep him? You said maybe I
could have a pet, since the war is over and I'm the oldest with
Bill and Charlie at Hogwarts."Arthur's face paled, and Wormtail was
instantly able to place the expression. It was the same look Frank
Longbottom had worn every time he had seen James and Lily playing
with Harry and lamented that he was unable to spend time with his own
son, Neville. Arthur obviously felt that he was a virtual stranger to
young Percy, and, as a result, he was likely to give the child most
anything he asked for. The end of the war may mean a great many
spoiled children. "I don't think you want a mangy rat
like that," Arthur said slowly.Percy was not to be dissuaded. "Yes,
I do." Then he turned his head quizzically. "What's 'mangy?'""It's, well, look at his fur.
Grungy. Scabby.""Scabby," Percy repeated. "Scabby."
Evidently, he liked the sound of the word. "Can I call you
'Scabbers?'"You can't do any better than that?
wondered Wormtail, but he bobbed his head once more."You see?" asked Percy delightedly.
"He knows his name. He wants to be my pet. He did tricks before."
Without being prompted, Wormtail launched into his repertoire once
more."Are you certain?" Arthur asked at
last, and both Percy and Wormtail smiled. "Having a pet can be a
lot of work.""I can do it, Daddy.""I believe you can," agreed Arthur,
and he aimed his wand at Wormtail. A few cleaning spells did wonders
for the coat which had given him his new name, and for the first time
since the first of November, Wormtail's paw did not hurt. I
wonder what this would look like in my human form, he thought
briefly before reminding himself that he was not likely to have a
human form ever again. Damn Sirius and his damn plans. "Are
you ready for ice cream now?" Arthur continued when Percy had
carefully picked up his new pet in both hands."But I have a rat," said Percy
confusedly."I think you can have both.""Really?" Even Wormtail had
to admit that Percy's delight was relatively cute, but his
affection for his new "master" lessened somewhat when the boy
refused to share his ice cream cone on the grounds that rats should
eat rat food, or at least something healthier than ice cream. Arthur
agreed that it might be best if Scabbers shared the feed Percy's
mother conjured for the chickens.Chicken feed. Wonderful. I should
have been more careful when I chose a family. Though beggars can't
be choosers… In addition, Wormtail was beginning to suspect
that Percy and Arthur were not only wizards, but Weasleys. And the
Weasley family was something of a prominent pureblood family. Any
news of the Dark Lord would surely reach Wormtail's ears if he
became the pet of Percy Weasley. I might even find out what
happened when He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named tried to kill Harry.Arthur took Wormtail from Percy's
arms so that Percy could use the whole of his concentration to
operate the Floo Powder he took from the jar next to the ice cream
shop's fireplace. "The Burrow!" Percy yelled."The Burrow!" Arthur repeated a
second later.Percy, Arthur, and Wormtail were
greeted by a short, round woman with a head full of bright red hair
and an arm full of months-old infant. "Arthur, Percy-- what's
that!""It's my new pet, Mummy," Percy
explained with a slight tremor in his voice. "His name is
Scabbers." Percy's mother sent a blazing look at Arthur, which
was not lost on Percy. "You said I could have a pet," he
whispered.Wormtail watched as the woman's heart
melted. "So we did," she agreed. "So we did.""He's very smart," added Percy,
stepping forward to allow his mother to see his new acquisition."I'm sure he is, but keep him away
from Ginny until she's a bit older." The mother shifted Percy's
younger sister in her arms. "Let your father put him out with the
chickens for now, and go wash your hands. And can you bring the twins
down here to eat?""Yes, Mummy," said Percy
obediently, and as soon as he had gone out of sight up a crooked
staircase, the woman rounded on her husband."Arthur, I know we agreed that he
could have a pet, but why pick one up off the street?"Arthur shook his head. "It's what
he wanted, Molly. I tried to talk him out of it, but he had his heart
set on this one. I turned to talk to Minister Wimple, and when he'd
gone, Percy was in love. I couldn't say no. Because of my politics,
he's spent half his life in safehouses and running away from Dark
wizards, and he barely knows me. I couldn't tell him--""All right." Molly's voice
softened drastically. "It's not your fault, not any of it, you
know. He came out of it all right. They all did. We were lucky.""Nonetheless, Percy was the one born
at exactly the wrong time and into exactly the wrong situation. If
he'd been older he would have been at Hogwarts and if he'd been
younger he would have been oblivious. And I've looked at the rat.
He's perfectly safe. We'll just keep an eye on him for a few
days."The melancholy attitude abated. "Need
I remind you that we have five children under the age of six to keep
an eye on?" she asked in a challenging but teasing way.Arthur nodded smartly. "Right. So how
about we get started on Scabbers' probation right away by letting
him stay in the kitchen instead of outside. I'm sure Percy will
want him upstairs sooner rather than later."Molly agreed, and Wormtail had no
sooner been placed in a newly conjured box than Percy returned
drawing two identical three-year-old boys by the hand. "Look!"
yelled one. He pulled free of his brother's grip and scrambled over
to the box. "Gnome?" he asked confusedly."Rat," corrected his father. "Come
on, Fred. Sit down.""No!""Yes!"Both twins were wrestled, laughing,
into their seats. This was obviously a routine occurrence. Meanwhile,
Molly vanished and returned with yet another child, a baby who by
Wormtail's estimate was about the same age as Harry. "Here's
Ron," she announced as she placed the boy in a highchair. He wore a
bib that matched the one Harry had been given by Dumbledore on his
first Christmas: Hogwarts 1998.Wormtail's head swam as he watched
the family. Ginny. Ron. Fred. Percy. Arthur. Molly. What's the
other twin's name? And there are two boys already at Hogwarts?The next two weeks passed in a blend of
routine and interest. Almost instantly, Wormtail grew to hate the
tow-headed twins and their grabbing hands and loud play. Molly was
constantly reprimanding Fred and George, George and Fred, that's
Percy's rat, don't touch, but the boys were unwilling to listen.
Arthur had no ability to discipline them whatsoever because the two
were natural born comedians who never failed to make their father
laugh. Their alleged games reminded Wormtail of the stories that had
always been told of young James and Sirius.Sirius' voice bounded into Wormtail's
mind. " . . . .So, James' Mum had told him he couldn't touch
the cake, and he asked if I could come over to play. His Mum said
yes, hoping I'd keep his mind off the cake he couldn't have, but
then he pretended to push me down the stairs and when his Mum came
over to make sure I was all right, he ran into the kitchen and cut
the middle part out of the cake and covered it up with frosting. We
hid under the covers of his bed and ate the cake, and it was the best
cake I've ever had, but I thought we'd be punished for the rest
of our lives. But his Mum just laughed . . . ."George pinned Wormtail's legs to his
side while Fred pulled his tail. I wish You-Know-Who had gotten to
them. I hope they keep following in James and Sirius' footsteps.
He squawked in pain. Hate Fred and George. Hate James and Sirius.
At last, Percy overheard the twins and came pattering into the
kitchen. He wrenched his pet from his brothers' grasps. "HE'S
MINE!" Percy bellowed angrily. "MINE, MINE, MINE! STAY AWAY!"
The twins, as always, only laughed as Percy stalked upstairs to his
room with Wormtail under one arm."You should stay here," Percy
informed Wormtail when he had made certain that the rat had not been
too badly hurt. "Especially since I'm going to school after
Christmas." Percy sighed pensively. "Mother said I didn't have
to go because I only just turned six last week. I could start next
year. But she really wanted me to go this year, I could tell. And I
heard her talking to Father, and she said she was worried I didn't
soc-- socialive, or something, enough because I lived in safehouses."
A pout began to flower on the small face. "It's not like I asked
to stay in safehouses. I didn't want to. They were always telling
me to be quiet. Be quiet, be quiet, be quiet, or they'll come and
kill the twins." You say that like it's a bad thing. "That
must be what school is like, too."Percy's monologue was interrupted by
the cheerful greeting of a young teenager. "Talking to yourself,
little brother?""Charlie!" Percy exclaimed, and
jumped to his feet. "I thought you weren't coming until
tomorrow."Charlie looked Percy over, eyes
twinkling. "Maybe it's good that you're going to school after
Christmas. You need to work on the days of the week."Percy suddenly tensed. "I know the
days of the week," he protested as if Charlie had accused him of
something very terrible.
"Sunday-Monday-Tuesday-Wednesday-Thursday-Friday-Saturday!"Charlie chuckled. "I was just
teasing, Perce. I know you'll be the smartest in your class. It's
good that they're opening the schools again. You'll be ready when
it's time for you to go to Hogwarts."Percy again looked like he might pout.
"You'll be gone by the time I have to go.""That's true," Charlie agreed."So I'll have to go all by myself.""It's a long time off. You'll be
ready to get away from all your brothers by then.""I'm ready to get away from the
twins now," Percy said sullenly, causing Charlie to laugh once
more."Then you'll like them better when
you go away.""I couldn't like them less.""What did they do?""They pulled Scabbers' tail!"
Percy pointed at Wormtail."Scabbers?""He's my rat," Percy explained.Charlie walked around his little
brother to inspect the rat. "He's a good rat," Charlie said
seriously."Thank you.""You're welcome. Now come
downstairs and say hello to Bill." Percy fairly skipped from the
room, and for the next several days Wormtail was blissfully freed
from a six-year-old's ramblings and two almost-four-year-olds'
tactics of torture. He was, however, dragged downstairs on Christmas
morning, and he sat with Percy in a corner of the kitchen and watched
as Molly set to work on a veritable feast that he knew he would not
be allowed to share."Charlie! Bill!" Molly called as
she magically shot a sack of potatoes out of their skins. "Come in
here, please. Can you set the table?""Yes," they chorused, and ran to
obey her command. They paused in the entrance, though, and stared at
the piles of food."Mum, this much food would feed
Dumbledore's whole army for a month," Bill announced. Wormtail
nearly slipped from Percy's lap when he got his first real glimpse
of Percy's oldest brother. Probably a Hogwarts sixth-year now, and
would have been a first-year when Wormtail himself had been a sixth
year. He had a vague memory of Sirius-- damn Sirius!--
convincing this Weasley, and his lot of friends, that if they
collected one hundred suits of armor in the same room, the suits
would be so happy at being reunited that they would give the group a
book containing seven years' worth of exam answers. The first-years
had spent a good many hours in detention."It's my first Christmas with all
seven of my children," Molly lightly retorted. "And the first
Christmas with You-Know-Who gone. I think that's worth celebrating.
Don't you?""Merlin watch over Harry Potter,"
Charlie agreed."He certainly needs it," Molly said
almost darkly. "The Daily Prophet says he's to be raised by
Muggles.""Yeah, I remember his mother was
Muggle-born. It was a big deal when she was Head Girl," Bill agreed
as he placed plates around the table."That was your second year?" Molly
asked."The last year before Charlie came
and made my life at Hogwarts a misery," said Bill with a grin.Charlie swatted at his brother's head
with a pile of napkins, but then raised his eyes to meet Bill's.
"Could you tell? That she was that special?"Bill nodded. "Yes, Charlie, it was
perfectly obvious that she was going to marry the Head Boy and they
were going to have a son who would defeat You-Know-Who.""Bill! It's Christmas!" Molly
reprimanded."Yes, you have 364 other days a year
to make fun of me," added Charlie."Actually, it was obvious she
was going to marry the Head Boy," Bill admitted. "They tried to
keep it quiet, so naturally the whole school knew. They were so good
at everything-- larger than life-- the day we got the news at school,
I don't think anyone who remembered them was surprised that they'd
been the ones to bring the Dark Lord down. The really weird thing was
Sirius Black. He was James Potter's best friend. He and Pettigrew
and Potter and another one, Lupin, were always together. Black being
Dark-- it doesn't make any sense."Molly shuddered. "I can't believe
you went to school with that boy for two years.""Went to school with him and idolized
him," Bill agreed. "Those first two years, all any of us ever
wanted to be was him.""Don't say that!" Molly snapped."But it's true. He was smart and
good at Quidditch and everyone liked him. All the girls in the school
threw themselves at him. I mean, he'd walk into a room and girls
would walk into walls.""There's more to life than being
handsome and popular," Molly growled. "I hope you understand
that.""He was more than handsome and
popular. He looked out for all the younger Gryffindors. He was
protective. He was funny. He was really, genuinely nice. He deserved
to be popular.""Obviously not."Bill finished setting the table. "I'm
just saying it doesn't make sense that he'd go out and murder
thirteen--"Molly turned sharply to look at her
sons. "Bill!" she snapped, and gestured at Percy, who had been
taking in the entire conversation with wide eyes.Percy, sensing that he was the reason
the conversation had been stopped, looked at his mother with eyes
that seemed out-of-place on a six-year-old. "I know about Sirius
Black, Mother," he said distinctly. "He murdered twelve Muggles
and a wizard named Peter Pettigrew, who Bill just said was his friend
at school, with one curse. They said he was You-Know-Who's
second-in-command. And now he's in Azkaban. The wizard prison.
Forever. With the dementors. He'll probably go mad. If he isn't
already."Charlie, Bill, and Molly stared at
Percy, who was methodically stroking Wormtail with one hand. In the
face of their stares, he spoke again. "Over the entrance to
Azkaban, it says 'Abandon All Hope Ye Who Enter Here.' That's
from the Divine Comedy by Dante Alighieri.""Yes, Perce, you're definitely
going to be at the top of your class when you start school,"
Charlie broke the silence. Then he gave his brother an especially odd
look. "Since when do you call Mum 'Mother?'""Since I turned six," said Percy
firmly. "I'm not a baby anymore."Charlie and Bill were kind enough to
refrain from bursting into laughter. Wormtail was not so generous,
but because he was a rat no one could reprove him. My young master
is most definitely certifiable. The whole lot of them need to be
checked into Saint Mungo's. The twins are natural sadists,
Charlie's just thick, Bill admired Sirius even after Sirius landed
him in detention, and Percy . . . where to start . . . .I hate Bill for liking Sirius. And
James and Lily. He had no right to like them. They were mine. And I
liked them and now I hate them because I'm stuck here pretending to
be a rat and they aren't.If James and Lily had just let
Dumbledore be their Secret-Keeper, I wouldn't have to live on rat
food.If Sirius hadn't chickened out of
being Secret-Keeper, I wouldn't have to let a six-year-old put his
hands all over me and ramble about how he's nervous about school.If they hadn't drawn so much
attention to themselves, Bill wouldn't have known about them and I
wouldn't have had to listen to that stupid tribute when I was
trying to forget. If I have to spend the rest of my life as a rat,
the least I deserve is to forget.Wormtail sulked for the rest of the
day. The lowest point came when the meal commenced with a toast to
"Harry Potter, the Boy Who Lived." The sole high point came when
baby Ron, upon noticing the creature staring at the spread on the
kitchen table, threw him most of the food within his reach.Wormtail decided that Ron had
potential.When Percy marched off to school,
Wormtail was allowed to spend most of his days sleeping undisturbed
on or in Percy's bed. He was pleased to find that Percy was willing
to let him sleep there at night as well, curled up against Percy's
soft, warm, pliant body. It felt mildly like pedophilia, but Wormtail
could not bring himself to care.Having a pet rat that's actually a
man sleep in your bed is hardly worse than being forced to pose as a
rat because your allegedly brave alleged friend couldn't bring
himself to be Secret-Keeper for his so-called best friend.It was terribly annoying when Percy
insisted on doing his homework aloud, and then insisted on checking
it over and over until one of his parents took it away and ordered
him to a meal or to bed.It was even worse when Percy, deprived
of schoolwork, began to play with the toy figures of dragons that
Charlie had sent him from Hogwarts. The game and the narration were
always the same: "Run, run, hide under the bed. Be quiet, be quiet,
You-Know-Who will hear and he'll kill your brothers. He'll kill
your brothers and it will be your fault and your parents will feed
you to the big dragon because you killed your brothers. Even though
they're twins and there's an extra one. Be quiet, be quiet, even
though it's dark and you can't see what might be creeping around
you and you don't know who's there and you don't know where
Mother is, be quiet, be quiet, that's the rule and if you break the
rule you die."SHUT UP! Wormtail screamed
mentally, but it never had any effect. I can't believe that once
I felt sorry for little gits like you who were stuck in safehouses. I
joined You-Know-Who because that was the winning side, because I
could help people from the winning side, and now I'm stuck as a rat
for my trouble. Wormtail's loathing of Percy grew as
days and years passed. He felt a surge of gratitude toward his young
master just once, on the day that Fred used Ron's puffskein for
Bludger practice and the little animal died of massive internal and
external trauma. There but for the grace of Percy go I,
Wormtail was forced to admit. Ron sat on the steps of the Burrow and
cried all day long. Little Ginny, after vain attempts to comfort her
youngest older brother and usual playmate, apparently decided that
she could do nothing but cry with him, and the two of them gave
Wormtail the worst headache he had ever had in rat form.Percy grew ever more focused on his
studies in anticipation of making the leap to Hogwarts, and he no
longer demanded that Wormtail act the least bit magical. He left off
playing with his model dragons, and he left off confiding to Wormtail
all of his fears.Wormtail slept all the more. I
deserve it for putting up with Percy, he told himself.And then one day, the inevitable
happened. Percy came into his room and shut the door. In one hand, he
held a letter. Even in his lethargic state, Wormtail recognized the
seal. Hogwarts.For the first time in a long time,
Percy picked up his pet and sat down, stroking his fur. "I'm
going to Hogwarts next month, Scabbers," he began. "We're
going. The letter says I can bring an owl or a cat or a toad, but
Father says they'll let me bring you instead. And I've always
wanted to go, you know. As long as I can remember. I want to be Head
Boy, like Bill was. Remember how happy Mother was when he got the
badge?"But I've also always worried. Bill
and Charlie had each other, and the twins will go together, and Ron
and Ginny are only a year apart. But I'm going alone. Charlie just
graduated, and the twins aren't coming for two whole years. Not
that I'm all that eager for them to come. Just imagine how much
trouble they'll cause without Mother around. And the professors
will probably blame me."Charlie says everyone will remember
him and if anyone bothers me to say he'll beat them up. He says
that since I'm starting the year after he leaves I'll get his old
dormitory, and he can tell me all its secrets. All the dormitories
are a little bit different he says, and he says his is the best,
because he started the year after James Potter and his friends left,
so they did things to the room even the professors couldn't figure
out--"Wormtail froze beneath Percy's hand."Are you all right, Scabbers?"Wormtail made a concentrated effort to
relax."Of course, that's assuming I get
into Gryffindor at all. What if I don't? What if I'm the first
Weasley who doesn't make it into Gryffindor?"Gryffindor will take anybody.
Believe me, Wormtail sneered to himself."Do I have to commit ritual suicide
or something? Do I just go back home?"Do you shut your mouth for once? No,
no chance of that."And on the day the Express comes,
Father will be at work and Mother can't handle Fred AND George AND
Ron AND Ginny in a station full of Muggles. Who knows what they'd
do. The Ministry would have to do a million memory charms. So
Charlie's going to drop me off on his way to Romania. He's going
to work with dragons. Did I tell you that? I wonder if I'll be the
only one there without parents. Probably not. Loads of kids my age
don't have parents at all because of You-Know-Who. And there might
be people there whose parents worked for You-Know-Who. That's
evil."Hey, watch it, you sanctimonious
little git! I hope they Sort you into Slytherin. You'd be eaten
alive, or maybe not, what with that stupid plan you have to be Head
Boy."I'm really scared."Then die of fright already. What did
I ever do to deserve to listen to this? Other than accidentally kill
a few people. Wormtail cocked his head. It had been years since
he had thought of that."I don't think I'm worthy of
living in James Potter's old dormitory."I don't think I am, either.Neither Percy's doubts nor Wormtail's
prevented the pair from going to meet the Hogwarts Express, escorted,
as promised, by Charlie. As soon as they stepped through the barrier
to Platform 9 ¾, a boy wearing Gryffindor colors and carrying
an expensive broom hailed Charlie. "Weasley! Did you flunk out?""No, no. I'm here to drop off my
brother." He pulled Percy forward. "This is Percy. It's his
first year. You'll look out for him for me?""The whole team will," the boy
promised. He turned to Percy. "You like Quidditch?""Of course," said Percy, clearly
confounded that anyone would ever ask such a silly question."He's good, but don't count on
him trying out," said Charlie. "He's got his heart set on being
another Bill. Head Boy."After a few more minutes of discussion,
Percy, his trunk, and Wormtail were loaded onto the train. Percy's
first day was smoothed by the Gryffindor Quidditch team, which made
good on its promise to look after its former captain's little
brother. Heads all around the Great Hall, which looked just as
Wormtail had remembered, turned to see who was so important that the
defending champion Quidditch team was swarming around him. In
particular, Percy attracted the attention of another first-year, a
dark-haired boy who was burly even at age eleven."Oliver Wood," he introduced
himself. "Do you know all of the Quidditch players already?"Percy nodded. "Percy Weasley." The
boys shook hands. "My brother was captain last year, but he's
graduated now."Oliver's mouth fell open. "Charlie
Weasley?" he asked. "I read about him. He was so good he could
have played for England, but he wanted to go to Romania
instead." The boy's face was a mix of disgust and confusion.Percy shrugged. "Charlie likes
dragons." Oliver looked at Percy as if he were speaking Swahili.
"You're going to play Quidditch, then?" Percy added."Yes. Keeper," Oliver declared
firmly. He lowered his voice. "And I want to be captain."Percy lowered his voice as well. "I
want to be Head Boy.""Charlie Weasley's brother wants to
be Head Boy, not Quidditch captain?""Our brother Bill was Head Boy,"
Percy explained.Oliver briefly looked thoughtful.
"That's a lot to live up to.""Tell me about it," Percy agreed.
But his ego must have been inflated by the attention Charlie's
friends had shown him, for he added "I think I can do it.""Gryffindor?" asked Oliver."Obviously. You?""Obviously."Percy smiled. "So we'll be
Quidditch captain and Head Boy, and we'll win the House Cup and the
Quidditch Cup and everyone will think that we were meant to live in
James Potter's old dormitory."Oliver looked floored. "Really?""Really. Charlie started the year
after he left and left last year. He says it's full of secrets
because James Potter and his friends were so clever that Filch and
the professors and everyone else didn't realize what they'd done
to it.""Wow," Oliver whispered. "We have
to win the House Cup and the Quidditch Cup. We have to.""We will."The two had distracted each other (and
nauseated Wormtail) so well that nearly all of their classmates had
been Sorted before their faces became tinged with green as they
anticipated their turns beneath the hat."WEASLEY, PERCY!" Percy, still
clutching Wormtail, resolutely approached the hat. It barely grazed
his brow before sending him off to Gryffindor. The Gryffindors,
clearly remembering Charlie and Bill, screamed with delight.Nothing at all like Wormtail's own
Sorting.He remembered hoping his luck would
hold out. He had been lucky to run into James on Platform 9 ¾,
and lucky that James remembered that they had met two years earlier
at a Quidditch festival, and lucky that James' friend Sirius was
not possessive to the point that he tried to keep James from making
other friends, and lucky that they and Remus had ended up in a boat
together as they journeyed to the castle. There was something deeply
satisfying about a boat intended for four that was filled by four,
with no one missing and no one left out.He had been lucky that, though he had
been nervous, he had managed not to stammer. He had been lucky not to
trip getting on or off the Hogwarts Express. He had been lucky that
it had not rained. He had been lucky that Remus, who was clearly a
member of an old wizarding family and therefore mysterious in that no
one had ever heard of him, had been the focus of Sirius' and James'
attentions: too much attention placed on Wormtail might have led him
into saying something stupid, and prevented him from ever making
friends.And when he half-stumbled up to the
Sorting Hat-- so much for not tripping!-- he could only hope
for Gryffindor, where Remus and Sirius had already been Sorted and
where James was sure to go.The Sorting Hat dropped down over his
eyes, and an instant later an odd voice whispered in his ear. "I
wasn't expecting you! I didn't even know Roberta Pettigrew had
a younger brother-- but of course, you hadn't been born when I
Sorted her. She was in Ravenclaw, and she did quite well there.
You're smart, but you seem to work for what you get, not coast on
your natural intellect like so many Ravenclaws do. I don't think
you'd quite fit. You're loyal enough for Hufflepuff, but that's
Ravenclaw's rival house. Will that be a problem?"No, thought Wormtail
half-heartedly."You can't lie to me, you know,"
said the hat smartly. "I can see inside your mind. Now, Helga would
have loved to have you, but she never would have placed you in her
house if it made you unhappy. A sweet, kind woman. All of the four
agreed that a wizard's finer qualities were more likely to come out
if he was happy, mind you. Would you relax so I can get a better
look?"This is taking too long,
Wormtail thought frantically."Nonsense. We have at least two that
last a minute every year. And the record was over an hour. Now
relax."HOW CAN IT TELL ME TO RELAX? RELAX,
RELAX, IT'LL NEVER THINK YOU'RE BRAVE IF YOU DON'T--"Bravery! So that's it. You have
friends in Godric's house? Well, I think that would be fine." The
hat chuckled. "I know you've had some trouble making friends. And
it's quite brave of you to keep trying. This isn't a perfect
match, but is it what you want?"Yes!"You might have to work extra-hard,
but I think Godric would be pleased. We'll go with GRYFFINDOR!""GRYFFINDOR!"In the present, the Sorting Hat had
suggested that Oliver Wood join Percy and Wormtail at the Gryffindor
table. Both Oliver and Percy were relieved and excited. Wormtail, for
his part, was annoyed that Percy was not about to share the opening
feast with his pet.I hope one of you obnoxious little
brats tried to trick the Sorting Hat like I did, he thought.
Nothing good comes from being raised outside your true house. If
I'd been in Hufflepuff, I'd've had friends as loyal as I was. I
was so damn loyal that I went over to the Dark Side thinking I could
protect Sirius and Remus and James from there. And I ended up as a
rat because Sirius was so far from loyal he wanted to kill me for my
trouble. James was so far from loyal he put his friends in danger by
making a big deal out of himself. And Remus was so far from loyal
Sirius couldn't see he wasn't the spy! Damn them all! Damn Percy
for bringing me back here.Percy and Oliver trudged upstairs with
two other boys-- both Muggle-born and of only marginal magical
talent-- to the room that had once belonged to Wormtail. He shuddered
when he caught a glimpse of the ceiling and saw that the boldly
written MWPP was still visible. Sirius had reinforced the
spells protecting it every day in the hopes that no amount of
cleaning would ever remove them.But that was a thing of the past. After
his initial shock, Wormtail realized that he could eat and sleep as
easily here as anywhere else. And eat and sleep he did. The four boys
did little to disturb him. Percy was determined to be a prefect and
spent his time with those from other houses who wanted the same.
Oliver ate, breathed, and slept Quidditch. The other boys had so
little magical ability that they spent most of their time trying to
keep their grades up or gawking at their surroundings. They would
never have been admitted to Hogwarts before the war had gutted the
wizarding population. It was rare for all four boys to be present in
the room at the same time; it was even rarer for all to be present
and awake (or asleep) at the same time. None of the four were close
friends, though they liked each other well enough, and the chance
that a party or game would break out in the room was slim.When Wormtail looked forward to the end
of each school year, then, it was not because he was bothered by the
room and certainly not because he wanted to go home to the dreadful
Burrow and the dreadful twins. No, he looked forward to the end of
each school year because he enjoyed few things quite so much as
watching Oliver's and Percy's reactions to the news that, once
again, Slytherin had taken possession of both the Quidditch Cup and
the House Cup. The two always wore matching hang-dog looks as they
packed their trunks and prepared to catch the Hogwarts Express."I can't believe it," Percy said
as the two looked around their room for the last time as
fourth-years. "When my older brothers were here, Gryffindor always
won. When I came, it started losing.""It's not your fault," said
Oliver tightly. "It's mine. You haven't been made a prefect
yet, but I was Quidditch captain-- and--" His voice broke off as if
Gryffindor's failure had been too horrible to contemplate."You had injuries," Percy broke in
bracingly. "Bad luck. And the twins! That's a lot to deal
with." Wormtail silently agreed. Even he could hardly wish the twin
terrors on Oliver."Good beaters, they are. Exceptional.
Good friends, too. But sometimes I wish I could get them to take
Quidditch seriously!"Percy laughed humorlessly. "You'll
never get them to take anything seriously." He sighed. "McGonagall
will never make me a prefect, not with the way they break every rule
and lose all the points we get."Oliver rolled his eyes. "Even if you
weren't the most obvious choice for a prefect for our whole year,
she'd give you a shot. If anyone can control them, you can.""Next year," said Percy firmly.
"Next year, we'll be more than halfway through, and we'll be
expected to be leaders. We'll have more authority and WE'LL WIN
THE CUPS!""The Express is coming soon, you
know," called a voice from the corridor."Thanks," called Percy and Oliver
as one. "See you next year," they added to each other before
seeking out their separate traveling partners.As always, Wormtail found it easy to
fall asleep in the presence of Percy's dull, obedient, intelligent
friends. He slept most of the summer away, and was most displeased
when he was jarringly snatched from his resting place one sunny
afternoon."Guess what, Scabbers?" asked
Percy. Wormtail looked at him, annoyed. Percy had not spoken to him
since before starting Hogwarts, and Wormtail had not missed the
chatter. "You're getting a new owner. I have a new pet. A real
pet. An owl!"Wormtail had to admit that it was
slightly humiliating to be exchanged for an owl. Then he fell back to
sleep, pondering his fate. If this 'new owner' thinks I'm
going to do tricks or play games or do anything but eat and sleep, he
ought to think again!And then Wormtail was shaken awake for
the second time within five minutes. "Scabbers? Are you alive?"
That's Ron."Be careful, will you, Ron? I've
had him for a long time. He's old and he needs to sleep a lot.""I guess," said Ron in a dejected
tone. "The letter says an owl or a cat or a toad," he added after
a moment."I know it does," agreed Percy.
"But I always had Scabbers with me before this year, and it was
never a problem. I'm a prefect. Would I ever give you something
that was against the rules?""No," said Ron."No. Shouldn't you get ready? We'll
be leaving in a few days and it's always hardest to pack well your
first time.""I'll remember that," said Ron
with some sarcasm in his voice."Good," said Percy, and he left.Ron glanced down at the rat on his bed.
"So, Scabbers, you're mine now." He sighed. "Everyone else in
my class is going to Diagon Alley to buy supplies, but I'm just
sitting here in my room while my brothers give me their old wands and
robes and rats. The other first-years are going to see me and laugh.
I wish we had more money--" He interrupted himself as if he'd
said something horrible. "Did that sound ambitious? I really don't
want to sound ambitious! You end up in Slytherin if they think you're
ambitious, and I am from an old family-- what would I do if I
ended up in Slytherin?" Where have I heard this before? If
Wormtail had not been so tired of hearing his young "owners"
explain their feelings to him as if he were a stupid animal who did
not understand but somehow cared, he would have rolled his eyes."Fred and George said something about
wrestling a troll to get into the house you want. How do you not look
ambitious when you're trying to wrestle a troll? Isn't it
ambitious just to try to live through wrestling a troll before you've
learned any spells at all?"He thinks the Sorting is about
wrestling trolls? That sounds like something Sirius-- damn Sirius! He
ought to be the one stuck here listening to this garbage. At least
he's safely rotting in Azkaban. Wonder is he's mad yet? Merlin,
that's morbid. He must be mad. He was most of the way along before
the Hit Wizards ever caught up with him.Presently, the twins' voices drifted
up the stairs of the Burrow. "Fred? George?" called Ron.Two identical faces appeared in the
doorway. "Yes, ickle Ronniekins?" two identical voices asked."About the troll--""Ronniekins," said one twin in a
very superior voice, "You can't keep asking us questions. You'll
have an unfair advantage over everyone else.""And we don't want that," the
other twin agreed. "Besides, we're very busy with school staring
next week. Essays to write--""You told Mum you wrote them the
first week you came home," Ron interrupted.Both twins burst out laughing. "Good
one, Ron," one added through his giggles."We're just saying you should make
it worth our while if we're going to baby-sit you."Ron reluctantly reached beneath his
Chudley Cannons bedspread and removed a handful of chocolate frogs.
"I get the cards," he said warningly."Yeah, yeah, the cards. We're too
old and wise and mature to care about the cards."Ron muttered something derisive under
his breath and unwrapped a frog himself, which he shoved underneath
Wormtail's nose. Wormtail gobbled it up greedily. At least Ron
isn't all bad."You're feeding chocolate to
Percy's rat? You know he won't like that.""Scabbers is mine now. And about the
troll, how do you not seem ambitious when you're trying to fight
something you have no idea how to fight that's much bigger than
you?"The twins shook their heads in mock-sad
unity. "You can't get Sorted into the wrong house. It's
impossible. No use trying to trick things," one explained."How come you get a pet and we never
did?" added the other."Because you'd kill any
animal you owned," said Ron bluntly.The twins laughed. "We're about to
fly over toward the Diggory place to see if Cedric's out
practicing. Wood told us last year that he thinks Hufflepuff wants to
make him their new Seeker, and we need a spy report. Want to come?""Yeah!""For a small favor."Ron looked at them warily. "What?""How did you hide those chocolate
frogs? We've looked in here dozens of times this summer."Ron smirked. "That's between
Charlie and me."The twins looked at each other and held
a silent conversation. "All right," said one. "Grab a broom and
meet us in the back." Fred and George left, and Ron scrambled after
them with Wormtail in one hand.What does he think he's doing?
He's not going to take me up on a broom?But it seemed that he was. The three
brothers had flown a short distance before Fred noticed that Ron had
brought along a passenger. "What've you got him along for?"
demanded Fred, poking at Ron to make him pay attention. For once,
something reasonable out of Fred's mouth. Wormtail looked down
grouchily. Should Ron let go, it would be a very long fall, and
Wormtail could not seem to get to sleep while being lugged around
like a bag of sweets. Sweets. Maybe Ron will give me some more
sweets."The last pet I left alone got used
for Bludger practice," said Ron."Don't hold a grudge, Ronniekins.
It's not attractive.""Shut up."They suddenly grew silent and pointed
their brooms downward. Apparently, they had reached their
destination. They abandoned the brooms beneath a bush and crept
cautiously toward a pretty, and obviously wizarding, home. A few
shouts reached Wormtail's ears, and if he had bothered to crane his
neck, he would have seen two boys tossing about a marble obviously
meant to simulate a Snitch."Looks like Wood was right," George
muttered out of the corner of his mouth. He nudged Ron. "That prat
with Diggory is the Hufflepuff Quidditch captain. He's a sixth
year.""It looks like they're doing a
little pre-season training," agreed Fred. "Load of good it'll
do them. It'll come down to Gryffindor and Slytherin.""Unless we can't find a Seeker.
Then it'll just be Slytherin. Again." George scowled."There has to be someone. There's
got to be.""Unless you want to de-age Charlie, I
don't think there is.""Maybe one of the second-years. Who
knows how good they are? Since first-years don't make house teams,"
Fred companionably swatted Ron's shoulder, "sometimes you can't
tell who's good and who's not. Our first year you and me and
Alicia and Angelina were all there, but we weren't on the team. And
then last year, we all made the team at least as reserves.""Maybe all the Quidditch talent
Gryffindor will have for the next decade got concentrated into our
class . . ." Wormtail at last managed to fall asleep, and did not
awaken until Ron was readying himself for bed. He noted that he had
had an odd dream in which he had turned yellow. Daisies and butter?
He shook his head, and realized that Ron was speaking to him."I dunno, Scabbers . . . you could
sleep in the old frog tank . . . I'll put some sweatshirts in there
for you . . ."Wormtail squawked out loud and
scrambled to Ron's bed, burrowing beneath the covers. If he's
going to carry me on a broomstick, he's at LEAST going to give me a
decent place to sleep."Scabbers, you can't sleep in my
bed."Wanna bet?"Well, I guess you can."Told you so."Good night." Ron climbed into bed
with his new pet, and Wormtail curled against the warm body. Ron was
going to be tall, was already about as tall as Wormtail had been as a
human, but he was much younger and more gangly than Percy. He smelled
of chocolate frogs and the sunny grass in which he and the twins had
lain all afternoon. It was an oddly comforting scent to Wormtail.It was a scent to which he grew
endlessly accustomed in the next few days. Ron, it seemed, lived in
terror that Fred would decide to use his rat as he had used his
puffskein, and was therefore unwilling to leave Wormtail alone for
more than a moment. Ron was cautious, though, and Wormtail found that
he could sleep through the majority of the boy's antics. He trained
himself to wake up at mealtimes, because unlike Percy, Ron believed
that a rat should eat whatever he liked.And to Wormtail's delight, he learned
that Molly Weasley was a truly talented cook. It's almost too
bad we have to leave. It might have been nice to stay in the house
with just Ron and Ginny and enjoy Molly's cooking. But it was
not to be. One evening, Wormtail received rather fewer table scraps
than was his wont."You're enjoying it, Ron? I know
it's your favorite," Molly asked anxiously."It's great, Mum," Ron replied
obediently. His brothers chorused that yes, the food was excellent,
and Arthur added that everything his wife cooked was wonderful."I just want Ron to enjoy his last
night at home--""Before Hogwarts eats him alive!"
interrupted Fred, or it might have been George."Hush," said Molly firmly.
"Hogwarts does not eat anyone alive. I think it's rather a wonder
that it's survived you two.""Then why can't I go?" whined
Ginny, who had been silent throughout the evening and had pushed her
food about her plate. From his position next to Ron, Wormtail eyed
the little girl's share of the meal."We've been through this before,"
Arthur took over for his wife. "Next year.""But I do really well in school and
I've been around magic my whole life. I'd do fine! I'll go
right to the top of the class if you only let me go this year instead
of next!""Eat, Ginny.""I'm not hungry.""Ginny, your mother worked very
hard--""Scabbers can have it." Wormtail
could hardly contain his delight as Ginny, before her parents could
stop her, grabbed Wormtail in one hand and her plate in the other.
The door slammed behind her with a bang.Outside, Ginny unceremoniously dumped
the contents of her plate to the ground near the front door and set
Wormtail on top of it. Wormtail began eating ravenously. After a few
minutes, the door slammed again and Ron appeared next to Ginny."Don't you feed him anything?"
Ginny asked accusingly. "He's eating like you've starved him.""He eats everything I give him,"
Ron protested. "Look how fat he's getting. Even fatter than he
was when Percy had him.""I guess," admitted Ginny."You have to say you're sorry to
Mum."Ginny's eyes flashed. "I don't
want to! I want to go to Hogwarts!""It'll be your turn next year.""I want to go now! Won't you help
me? We'll tell them we're twins!""We can't be twins. You're too
short.""I'm not short. You're tall,"
Ginny argued petulantly. "And I want to go! You get to go! We've
always gone to the same school before!""I know that," said Ron, sounding
very awkward."You aren't going to miss me at
all," Ginny accused."Er, yes I am." Wormtail nearly
choked. He didn't even try to make her believe him. Rather
ungrateful after all the years they spent playing together like best
friends-- ungrateful like Sirius!"Right. You get to go off and have
adventures and learn magic and have a pet and I get to stay here all
by myself.""It might be fun to be an only
child.""I don't think so. I don't want
to be an only child. I want--""To go to Hogwarts.""And have adventures and learn magic
and have a pet."Ron looked at Ginny, whose eyes were
round with tears, and then at Wormtail. "I guess you could have
Scabbers," he said dubiously.Food disposed of, Wormtail looked up at
them. No! I couldn't sleep in the little girl's bed! Or could
I…? For a few years…. She's going to be so pretty when she
grows a bit more… Furious with himself for thinking such a
thing, Wormtail nosed around, searching for crumbs that he might have
missed.Ginny was shaking her head. "No.
You're going away, and there'll be all those other people there,
and their parents will have just gotten them cats and owls… and,
well, you need Scabbers to go with you.""Right." Ron sounded relieved.
"Gin?""What?""I am going to miss you.""Thanks.""Really. I don't know anyone there,
really. I might've met some of them a few times, but that's it.""Percy and Fred and George?""Percy's a prefect. I don't think
prefects talk to anyone but other prefects. And he'd spend half his
time telling me off, anyway. The twins… it'd be like tagging
along. They were a set and we were a set, you know?" Ginny began to
cry. "DON'T CRY!" Ron shouted, horrified, and Ginny went back
into the house carrying her empty plate.Wormtail decided it was time to sleep.He awoke when he nearly fell to the
floor of the Hogwarts Express. Ron had just jumped to his feet;
Wormtail must have been on his lap."Oh, you're going to fight us, are
you?" asked a voice. Young. A boy whose voice had not yet broken;
probably Ron's age."Unless you get out now," responded
another voice."But we don't feel like leaving, do
we, boys? We've eaten all of our food and you still seem to have
some."Wormtail opened his eyes in time to see
a fat, dirty hand approaching the pile of sweets in which he seemed
to be lying. Ron would have given me some if I'd been awake!
They're mine! And with that, Wormtail bit the boy's finger.He yelled loudly, and swung Wormtail in
a circle. Wormtail clung on. Same as the Slytherins when I was
here, trying to take what isn't theirs-- at, last, when his
mouth filled with repulsive, bitter blood, he let go, and felt
himself hit first a window and then the floor. Ouch. May as well
go back to sleep. And he did.To his horror, he next awoke in a
dormitory. I missed the feast! The Opening Feast! Ron could have
woken me up! To reprimand Ron, Wormtail began chewing the boy's
sheets. You could have given me beef and chicken and pork and lamb
and sausage and bacon and steak and six kinds of potatoes and--
"Great food, isn't it?" Ron asked one of his roommates, as if
to mock Wormtail further. "Get off, Scabbers! He's chewing my
sheets."The boys were asleep in no time, and
Wormtail had no choice but to join them-- after noticing that the
hangings of the bed in which he lay were a deep red in color, and
that Ron, like his brothers before him, had indeed been Sorted into
Gryffindor.Living as Ron's pet at Hogwarts
became an easy routine for Wormtail. Ron still insisted on taking his
rat most everywhere, but he had given him a comfortable section of
his bag in which to sleep the day away, and the bag was infinitely
preferable to a jacket pocket or a hand. The Hogwarts food was as
good as Wormtail had remembered it. Food and sleep, sleep and food,
made for a not unhappy life.One day perhaps a week into Ron's
Hogwarts career, though, Wormtail was plagued by a troubling dream:Sirius was bouncing on his toes as
if he were physically incapable of controlling his excitement. "I've
got it! I've got it, I know what we have to do this time!"James' mouth curled impishly
upward as he tugged at his Gryffindor tie. "We're waiting.""We steal his homework and blot
out the right answers! Then we write in something ridiculous. For the
question about blocking the leg-locker, we'll write 'It doesn't
matter to me, I'm so uncoordinated the leg-locker wouldn't make a
difference. Have you ever seen me play Quidditch? Or rather,
pretend that I can play Quidditch? Besides, I think my time would
be better spent learning to wash my hair than answering this
question.' Well?"James was laughing, perhaps more at
Sirius' exuberance and sheer delight in his own ideas than at the
words themselves. Wormtail laughed, too, because it was good to have
a friend like Sirius who could formulate impossible schemes and make
life endlessly entertaining. But the fourth member of the quartet was
shaking his head. "That's a terrible idea, Sirius.
It would be horrible to make someone miss his first Hogsmeade weekend
ever. Downright mean, and not something I want to do. Can you imagine
how disappointing it would be?" Remus glared at Sirius, and Sirius,
James, and Wormtail exchanged confused looks. Since when was Remus so
protective of Slytherins? In particular, since when was he so
protective of a Slytherin who never missed an opportunity to sneer at
his pallor and apparent fragility? "Everyone knows," Remus
ranted, "That he's one of the best students in our year. And
everyone knows that the Defense Against the Dark Arts professors
watch him because of all the obscure hexes he's supposed to be able
to do. And everyone knows that he would never put his grades or his
reputation in danger by doing something like that, especially right
before the first Hogsmeade weekend. And everyone knows that if
someone was going to set him up that way, that someone would be us.
And we'd miss going to Hogsmeade."The other three reluctantly
exchanged glances admitting that Remus had a point. But Remus had not
finished speaking. "So we get a sample of his handwriting so we can
cast a forger's charm. Then we re-write the essay with the answers
just a bit off-- or better yet, we write on the wrong topic, but a
brilliant essay. So it looks like he thought he was so smart he
didn't have to pay attention and didn't hear the assignment. We
swap our parchment for his. He could still get punished for not doing
his homework." A slow smile spread across Remus' face, and Sirius
brightened once more."That's brilliant! Brilliant!
Oh, you had me going for a minute, but…" The rest of the day was spent
planning the trick, and the next afternoon, as the students sat in
their final class for the week, Wormtail watched as Sirius carefully
but assertively filtered through the pile of parchment that happened
to sit next to his desk. James and Remus were trying to be subtle as
they looked around the room. All of the third-years in the school
were taking a special lecture of Defense Against the Dark Arts
together in addition to their regular lessons, and with so many
students in one place, it seemed certain that someone would notice
Sirius' behavior.But Sirius had clever fingers and he
had had thirteen years of practice pulling pranks. The switch
occurred smoothly, and the four friends had only to count down the
moments until freedom. Twenty minutes. Fifteen. Ten. Seven. Five.
Four."Professor?"Wormtail's head shot up. Students
almost never spoke in this class. "Yes, Mr. Snape?""Professor, this is a little bit
off your topic, but could a forger's charm be traced that way?"The professor looked slightly
startled by the question. "It's possible, yes.""In that case," Snape rose from
his seat as he spoke, prompting gasps from many of the other
students, "Would you mind looking at my essay?" He had sauntered
across the room and easily pulled his homework from the pile."Mr. Snape, this is hardly an
appropriate use of class time. I will look at your essay when--""You should look at it now." The
room grew silent as death. No one ever interrupted professors so
brazenly. "Mr. Snape." The professor's
voice was cold and clipped, but Snape did not flinch. "Your
essay--""It isn't my essay. My essay is
in Black's bag." He pointed accusingly at Sirius. "This is a
forgery. Look at it. Would I ever write this?"Casting a wary glance at an
offended-looking Sirius, the professor unrolled the parchment. "This
is a perfectly fine essay, but not on the correct topic. I distinctly
told you--"Snape lunged for Sirius' bag, and
Sirius leapt to his feet. "Keep your slimy hand off of my bag!""You and your friends keep away
from my work! I saw you going through the assignments when class
started!""Don't ever accuse me of that
again!" Sirius lunged at Snape, and half a dozen students, Remus
among them, leapt to their feet to pull the two apart. The entire
class was focused on the battle, or so Wormtail thought."LOOK AT POTTER, LOOK AT POTTER!"
bellowed a Slytherin named Avery. "HE'S TAKING THE ESSAY OUT OF
BLACK'S BAG, SNAPE IS TELLING THE TRUTH!"James had been caught red-handed,
and Snape, sensing victory, voluntarily removed his hands from
Sirius' throat. Slowly, the professor approached James and removed
the parchment from his hand. "Mr. Potter.""This is a misunderstanding,"
James began."This was a set-up," Snape put
in. "James Potter. Sirius Black. Remus Lupin. And--""Harry Potter. Our new celebrity."Wormtail blinked more fully awake
inside Ron's bag. Harry Potter? That's right, the same
age as Ron . . . Why haven't I seen him yet? Cautiously,
Wormtail stood on his hind feet, and nearly toppled over in surprise
at what he saw. James' doppelganger was seated right next to Ron.
Predictably, the colors of Godric Gryffindor stood out at his throat.His shock was doubled when he realized
that Snape's voice had not been a part of his dream. He was still
calling out names. In fact, he was calling out a roll. He was a
professor!And he had not washed his hair since
Wormtail had last seen him.When Snape had established that all
students were present and accounted for, he began. "You are here to
learn the subtle science and exact art of potion-making." But
certainly not how to brew shampoo. "As there is little foolish
wand-waving here, many of you will hardly believe this is magic."
You being allowed to teach at the finest school for the Light in
the world is magic enough. "I don't expect you will really
understand the beauty . . ." Still full of yourself.Snape finished his recitation and
promptly began to bully Harry. Nothing like holding a grudge.
Slimeball.But in retrospect, Wormtail became
aware that Snape's bullying Harry was not such a bad thing. If
Harry hadn't lived… If Harry hadn't lived, I wouldn't be a
rat.And I wouldn't get the small
pleasure of SLEEPING THROUGH SEVERUS SNAPE'S CLASS!Wormtail returned to his habit of
eating and sleeping, sleeping and eating. Ron's first year passed
much as Percy's had, and Wormtail sometimes envisioned himself
trapped in a never-ending cycle, handed from Weasley to Weasley as a
pet, living in one Hogwarts dormitory after another. It mattered very
little. He had gone to school with Percy for four years and never
known that Percy was taking lessons from a former rival. Nothing
would matter until word came that the Dark Lord was gaining power
once more.He had no fears of sleeping through the
announcement. Unlike Percy's quiet roommates, Ron's roommates
were friendly and active.Wormtail's sleep was sometimes
disturbed by Dean, a Muggle-born who insisted on expounding on the
greatness of West Ham, whatever that might have been. (Many of his
roommates wondered loudly.)More frequently, it was disturbed by
Seamus, who jumped out of his bed on Saint Patrick's Day yelling
"Up the long ladder and down the short rope, to hell with King
Billy and God bless the Pope, if that doesn't do, we'll tear him
in two, and send him to hell with his red, white, and blue!" (His
roommates had all rolled their eyes loudly.)Then there was Harry. While he seemed
to be slightly on the shy side, he had predictably become a Quidditch
star, and this was cause for celebration each time Gryffindor won a
match. (His roommates congratulated him loudly.)And Wormtail's dear owner Ron was
capable of shouting a diatribe on any subject. (His roommates argued
or agreed loudly.)The fifth roommate was blessedly
quiet, and it was months before Wormtail realized that he was Neville
Longbottom, Frank Longbottom's son.And then one evening, Ron for the first
time voluntarily left Wormtail alone in the dormitory. Wormtail found
it disturbingly difficult to fall asleep. The bed was cold without
the heat of Ron's body, and besides, Wormtail was hungry. He had to
admit that he had become slightly spoiled by Ron's generosity with
regard to food. Disgusted, Wormtail crawled across the bed and found
that Harry was missing as well.The Dark Lord? No, more than
likely Harry and Ron had simply gotten detention yet again, or were
off causing trouble as James had once done. Yet, their roommates knew
nothing of their whereabouts, and as the hours wore on Neville
vanished as well.Ron did not return until late the next
evening. He was, predictably, bearing a pocketful of snacks for
Wormtail, but Seamus, Dean, and Neville demanded his attention as
soon as they saw him."RON!" they shouted in unison, and
Wormtail could barely separate the wave of words that followed into
separate questions and exclamations."Is it true what they're saying?""Did you see the Stone? Was it really
there?""Is Harry all right?""Where is Harry?""Hermione! What about Hermione? Is
she back?""I heard you fought a living chess
set!""I heard they tried to poison you!""Was Quirrell really working for
You-Know-Who?" Wormtail froze in mid-chew. Did I hear what I
think I heard?"Is Dumbledore angry?""Have you been expelled?""Did you talk to the Minster of
Magic?""Are you getting an Order of Merlin?"Eventually, sitting on his bed in a
position that indicated that he was more exhausted than any
twelve-year-old had a right to be, Ron spoke. "Dumbledore says I'm
not to tell you anything about what happened. But Hermione just went
up to her dormitory and Harry's still in the hospital wing. He
hasn't woken up yet, but Dumbledore says he will. But not in time
to play against Ravenclaw. Wood asked McGonagall as I was coming up
here and she said there was no way Harry could play and he
oughtn't've asked.""Come on, Ron," urged
Seamus. "You could just nod. You could at least tell us whether
Quirrell was really--" Yes, you could! Wormtail added."You know as much as I do. Probably
more since you weren't stuck in the hospital wing. I didn't see
anything after the chess set because I had to sacrifice myself.""Wow," said the other three
boys in awed unison."Are you all right now?" asked
Neville softly."Yes. Just tired… and I'm really,
really sorry about the body-bind. So's Hermione. She was so upset
about it-- she'll probably tell you she's sorry about twelve
times at breakfast tomorrow. And she might be crying when she does.
So be prepared."Neville squirmed. "You don't need
to be sorry. I was wrong…""You did the right thing," said Ron
bracingly. "Just at the wrong time." Ron yawned."You should go to sleep," said Dean
unnecessarily, and Ron smiled."Reckon? But one thing.""What?""What is everyone saying
around the school?"Dean, Seamus, and Neville held a silent
conversation while Ron waited in tired patience. Seamus, at last,
spoke. "Well, the basic story is that you three knew that Quirrell
was working for You-Know-Who, and you didn't have time to tell
Dumbledore because he wasn't here. So you went to that forbidden
corridor yourselves, and you chased him past that massive dog with
three heads Neville was going on about a few months ago, and a plant
that tried to eat you, and poison, and that chess set-- does it
really knock you over the head when it captures you?""Yes," said Ron, drawing his hand
unconsciously to his head and wincing."Does it hurt?""A little," Ron admitted
reluctantly, and in spite of the dire situation Wormtail laughed to
himself."Anyway," Seamus continued, "There
was something about poison, and winged keys, and Harry throwing
himself over the Stone to keep You-Know-Who off of it, and there are
a lot of variations. That's most of them. Sure you don't care to
confirm or deny?""Confirm," said Ron.Seamus and Dean whooped with joy."I hope Hermione's all right,"
Ron said pensively as he crawled further onto his bed and set about
arranging it for sleep."Was she badly hurt?" asked
Neville, who sounded a bit frightened."No. Not really hurt at all. You know
she's too smart to get hurt.""But she was in the hospital wing all
day," Neville protested."Madam Pomfrey never wants to let
anyone leave, but Dumbledore decided we should leave together,
tonight. Harry's got all kinds of people watching over him, but
Hermione's all by herself." He looked toward the girls' half of
the dormitory as if it were many miles away."Parvati and Lavender are cool,"
Dean defended, and Ron seemed to relax slightly.Within minutes, the boys had called
their sleepy goodnights to one another, and Ron, his red curtains
pulled closely around his bed, sank to his pillow with a soft sigh.
But instead of blinking into unconsciousness, he clutched Wormtail to
his chest and breathed raggedly throughout most of the night.Oh yes . . . You-Know-Who may rise
again yet! And You-Know-Who will have a better use for me than a
frightened child's security blanket!Wormtail was elated. Ron's growth
showed that he had been a rat for more than ten years, and the
situation was getting old. He gasped for breath as Ron squeezed him
even more tightly.During the ensuing days, Wormtail was
never out of Ron's pocket, and Ron was never away from his
second-best-friend's side except when he was forced to go up to his
dormitory at night. The Girl-- Wormtail had heard her named many
times, but preferred to refer to her as the Girl simply because she
annoyed him so thoroughly with her claims to cleverness and her bossy
voice-- babbled as much as she always did, and several times let
loose half-screams when Ron strayed too far from her line of sight.
Ron was equally annoying; he had become as obsessed with her safety
as she had become with his.Ron's brothers spent more time with
him than they had all year. Percy claimed to be doing his
prefectorial duty, and the twins claimed to be testing their
practical jokes, but their ruses were thin. Everyone, including Ron
and the Girl, seemed to be convinced that the three friends had
nearly died. Then my Lord has nearly risen again.Ron and the Girl settled down a bit
after they were allowed to gush embarrassingly over Harry in the
hospital wing for several minutes. And things began to look up even
more when the day of the final feast arrived.As usual, the Great Hall was decorated
in the colors of Slytherin. Ron and the Girl were disappointed, but
they did not seem to feel the wound as deeply as Wormtail's
obsessive-compulsive-anal-retentive-full-of-his-own-importance former
owner and his Quidditch-loving roommate always had. No, Ron and the
Girl were lamenting Harry's absence, and when Harry appeared, they
were delighted despite the green and silver décor. Harry
himself was blushing because most of the students in the room were
staring at him. Not at all like James. James just loved
attention. Damn James. Just one more who helped condemn me to
eternity as a rat.Perhaps eternity.Perhaps not.Wormtail felt almost cheerful when
Albus Dumbledore rose to speak.Blah, blah, blah, fifty points to
Gryffindor. Blah, blah, blah, fifty points to Gryffindor. Blah, blah,
blah, sixty points to Gryffindor.Wait a moment. That's rather a lot
of points, isn't it? Oh, bother, where's the food?And then the world exploded. The
students among whom Wormtail had lived for five years were screaming,
shouting, laughing, crying, hugging, pounding tables, slapping backs,
and shaking hands. Wormtail was squeezed against Ron's side as Ron
accepted congratulations and gleefully pointed out the Slytherins who
looked particularly miserable. Just as Percy and Oliver always had.
Percy and Oliver were now hugging each other; it seemed that Oliver
had accepted this as a temporary substitute for his coveted Quidditch
Cup.Wormtail lost his appetite, which was a
shame, considering the feast that lay before him.However, Molly Weasley cooked as well
as she ever had. That was the sole benefit in returning to the
Burrow. Even when Wormtail had been Percy's pet, he had not loathed
the Burrow to this degree. Now, though, the news of the Dark Lord's
impending return rested securely in his brain. Ginny's incessant
prattle about meeting Harry Potter (she had gotten over missing Ron,
Wormtail could not help but note) and at last beginning Hogwarts was
more annoying than Wormtail would have thought possible. The twins
were as violent as ever, and Ron had taken to moping about and
wondering why Harry didn't write him. Ron sounded almost like a
jilted lover until he realized that Harry had also failed to write
the Girl.Eventually, Ron was allowed to have
Harry come and visit. Harry's arrival had the happy effects of
cheering Ron and shutting up the smitten Ginny, who was auditioning
without much success to be the next red-haired girl to die beside a
Potter.Time passed. Harry and Ron returned to
Hogwarts. Luckily, the Girl was subjected to some kind of curse and
Wormtail did not have to put up with her spontaneous dissertations.
Besides, a series of attacks on Muggle-borns could only be a good
sign.But Lily is in danger! he
thought spontaneously one day before remembering that it had been a
long time since Lily had been in danger. And it had been a long time
since he had liked Lily. He vaguely recalled loving them-- Lily and
James and Sirius and Remus-- and he recalled feeling confused and
betrayed with slightly more clarity. Now, though, they were only
objects from his past who were the cause of his present torment. Too
many years spent living as an animal had taken a toll on his
compassion.He vowed to stop thinking of those that
his human self-- his human self who he had forsaken, his human self
whose name he could barely recall-- had befriended. He needed only
think of the potential rise of the Dark Lord, not of those who had
brought him to his current position. Dwelling on the past had never
aided anyone. James and Lily were dead. Sirius was probably dead as
well. And Remus might well have died by a sliver bullet. If he had
not, he was likely far away, on the fringes of wizarding society.But history, albeit recent history, did
repeat itself. One night, Wormtail was left alone in the dormitory,
and this time, no students remained. He did not learn until the next
morning that Harry, who had inherited James' inclination toward
heroism, and followed little Ginny into the legendary Chamber of
Secrets. It seemed that Ginny had been tricked into doing the bidding
of the Dark Lord by an enchanted diary he had written as a student.
And I thought the Marauder's Map was impressive!Wormtail was furious both that he had
missed the celebratory feast and that the Dark Lord had not gained
power in his present form. The summer began quietly, with all of the
Weasleys fussing over Ginny, who had, at least superficially,
recovered rather well. Molly and Arthur looked at their unexpected
victory in the Daily Prophet's Grand Prize Galleon Draw as a
heaven-sent blessing and promptly packed the entire family off to
Egypt.Ron, of course, would not have dreamed
of touring Egypt without his loyal pet rat. Wormtail was even
included in the official photograph of the happy winners; Ron placed
him on his shoulder so that his arm would be free to wrap
protectively around Ginny. Once the trip began, Wormtail saw curses
and hexes that only served to remind him that the Dark Lord would one
day rise again. There is nothing to be gained from resistance.
These educational journeys were interspersed with less serious
pursuits because Molly felt that Ginny was still too shaken by her
ordeal to be allowed to go inside the more famous and dangerous
tombs. In addition, the tour guides grew progressively more wary of
the distinctive family when word got around that the twins had tried
to shut Percy in a pyramid.One day, as the family was traipsing
through a pretty wizarding town, Arthur stopped dead in his tracks.
Fred nearly plowed into his father from behind. "Dad?" Arthur
seemed not to hear."Arthur?" Molly let go of Ginny's
hand and pushed through her unruly gang of children, for all seven
were present, and stood at her husband's side. "Arthur, what's
wrong?""I ought to contact the Ministry,"
he muttered as if to himself. "How this could happen-- without my
knowing--" Arthur gestured vaguely with a copy of the Daily
Prophet."Are you going to buy that?" asked
the proprietor of the newsstand."Here!" snapped Bill, and he tossed
a coin in the man's direction. "Dad, what is it?" Bill was tall
enough to read over Arthur's shoulder, and he did so."Well?" cried six younger siblings."Sirius Black has escaped from
Azkaban," Bill said.Wormtail saw their reactions with
numbed clarity.Ginny stumbled, and grasped Ron for
support. Ron looked struck dumb. The twins looked worried, but
fascinated, and Percy and Charlie looked simply horrified."Escaped?" demanded Charlie. "No
one escapes from Azkaban!""Someone forgot to tell Black that,"
said Bill. "Not that Black was ever much for listening to what he
was told.""Wait-- did you know him?"
put in Ron."They went to school together for two
years. Same house," Percy answered in a typical know-it-all tone."But I thought that every Dark wizard
ever-- at least the powerful ones-- came out of Slytherin!""It's polite to forget about
Black," explained Bill with a shrug. "He was a Gryffindor, all
the way."Ginny moaned slightly under her breath,
and this was enough to break her parents' trance. "We'll go
back to our rooms," ordered Molly as she seized her daughter's
hand once more. "Your father will contact the Ministry and see what
he can find out. Well? NOW!"The younger Weasleys obeyed, though
Charlie hung back for a moment to collect a few extra copies of the
newspaper.The rest of the day, and indeed the
rest of the vacation, passed in a blur for Wormtail. For the first
time, he was glad for Ron's habit of holding him just a bit too
tightly. It reminded him that he was, at least, alive.He grew nauseated and found himself
unable to eat. Ron responded by bribing him with all of the foods
which he had learned were his favorites. Wormtail nearly cried (not
that rats could) when he became aware of how much time and effort Ron
had put into his pet. He loves me… I'm a good pet… he'd
never let Sirius… Sirius must be mad… stop worrying… Sirius is
coming… Sirius knows I forgot about him and he'll make me pay…Such thoughts filled Womtail's days
and nights until the family returned to England. Once there, Ron
became determined to find a rat tonic. Just what I need.Ron got his chance on the day that he
was reunited with Harry and the Girl. They found an appropriate store
in good time."It's my rat," Ron announced as
soon as the trio had reached the front of the store. "He's been a
bit off-color since I brought him back from Egypt.""Bang him on the counter."
Thankfully, Ron did not take the caretaker's words literally. "How
old is this rat?" In his thirties. What? You don't remember
thirties, you old hag?"Dunno. Quite old. He used to belong
to my brother.""What powers does he have?" I
once killed twelve people with one curse. But that was pretty much an
accident.Ron was unable to answer."He's been through the mill, this
one," the caretaker continued."He was like that when Percy gave him
to me!" Sure. Blame it on Percy. The witch attempted to sell Ron a new
rat, a truly magical rat, but as Percy had so many years before, Ron
refused. He was just about to purchase a bottle of rat tonic when a
cat, obviously part kneazle, snarled out of nowhere.Great! Sirius escaped and a kneazle
that knows I'm an animagus after me! The sensible thing to do
was run. When Ron at last caught him, Wormtail decided to go to sleep
secure in the knowledge that things could not get worse.He awoke the next day to the sound of
the Girl's voice and the gentle rocking of the Hogwarts Express.
"Professor R. J. Lupin," she said.Shit.





--------




September 1, 1993 - June 10, 1994It had begun to snow. It's only the first of September, Remus thought with annoyance. How often does it snow when it's practically still August? The Hogwarts term is just starting today. But the snow continued to fall.He was supposed to be on the Hogwarts Express, Remus remembered. I have to get on the train! I'm going to miss the train. Fine way to start a new job. A professor is supposed to be more responsible than this. But how responsible can a werewolf ever be?The snow drifted higher, and Remus' exhaustion grew as he attempted to wade through it. Too cold. Too cold. Miserable werewolf, deserve to die like this. Had more time than James and Lily and Peter, and didn't deserve it. Should have stayed closer. Might've saved them, might've died with them. In his mind's eye, Remus saw first the werewolf approaching to bite him and then the ruins of Potters' house in Godric's Hollow.There was a sudden thud, and Remus felt himself being pulled backwards. He sat with his head against the window. His eyes opened to thick darkness, and he realized belatedly that he had been asleep. It was, in truth, very cold. Were dementors present? That would explain the horrid images that had invaded his dreams, as well as the chill.The training he had obtained before the fall of Lord Voldemort asserted itself, and he kept quiet until he could analyze the situation.Children's voices split the air. The first words Remus could make out clearly were a young boy's: "There's something moving out there. I think people are coming aboard…" The boy's voice trailed off, and Remus reached for his wand. If the boy was correct and people were coming aboard the train, then something was most seriously wrong.As the boy had predicted, the door to the compartment opened. The new arrival was not, however, a threat; he proved as much by tripping as he climbed inside. The new boy apologized profusely and asked if anyone knew what was going on."Hullo, Neville," replied a third voice. Young and male, but not the same boy who had been looking out the window. Remus' first thought was to wonder whether or not this was Neville Longbottom, Frank's son. His second thought was that this most recent voice sounded somewhat familiar-- rather like a young James. His third thought was that he ought to be protecting these children and not speculating on whether or not he was breathing the same air as Harry Potter."Harry? Is that you?"One of Remus' questions was answered."I'm going to go and ask the driver what's going on," a girl declared firmly. She opened the door and promptly tumbled backwards."Who's that?""Who's that?""Ginny?""Hermione?""What are you doing?""I was looking for Ron--""Come in and sit down--""Not here! I'm here!""Ouch!"Remus had his bearings now, and he was fairly certain that keeping his presence a secret was not necessary. It had been years since there had been Death Eaters lurking around every corner. He hardly needed to preserve the element of surprise, and the children needed someone to organize them just now."Quiet!" he commanded. His voice sounded hoarse even to his own ears; he had not spoken since before his transformation the previous night. The students obeyed, and fell still and silent. The sounds of Remus' movements seemed to echo in the compartment.He needed light. Rather than simply cast lumos, he performed a freezing charm and lit a ball of flame in his hand. This light was easily controlled while he used his wand for other purposes, and, as an added bonus, it looked impressive. It would be best to get the students' respect in case they actually were in the midst of a crisis situation. The Hogwarts Express had stopped, and there must have been a reason."Stay where you are," he added. He struggled to his feet, still feeling tired despite the fact that he had obviously managed to sleep through much of the journey to Hogwarts. The door slid open before him. He had been correct; there was indeed at least one dementor present. In sleep, and having had a past that gave dementors much with which to work, he had sensed their presence before they had actually arrived. What business does it think it has around a group of innocent children? Harry, he could see, had already gone rigid and fallen from his seat.Harry, like Remus, gave dementors a great deal to work with. Remus stepped over the boy's prone form."None of us is hiding Sirius Black under our cloaks. Go," Remus commanded with hatred. The dementor did not move.Now, faced with the full force of the dementor's power, he nearly staggered backwards. James . . . Lily . . . dead . . . FOCUS! His education asserted itself once more. Focus on one happy thought. One single memory to drive the dementors back.He was tired, and he could not gather himself quickly. His brain flicked through several memories that he had used in the past-- receipt of his first Hogwarts letter; James and Peter and Sirius completing the Animagus transformation just for him; Harry's choice of 'Moony' as his fifth word. No, all of those felt too old and tainted just now. The presence of Harry reminded him all too clearly of how that part of his life had ended. His happiest recent feelings, then, had probably occurred the day Dumbledore had offered him the job he was about to begin.XIt had been almost exactly a month before. The full moon had just set that morning, and naturally he was barely capable of caring for himself, let alone preventing the entry of the most powerful wizard in the world. He would not have refused Dumbledore entry in any case, but under ordinary circumstances he would have had the energy to adjust his surroundings. His flat was in the poorest corner of Britain's wizarding world, and no amount of effort on his part made it look like anything other than low-income housing. Even when he was busy with myriad odd jobs, or perhaps even a temporary salaried position, Remus did not move. Any spare money had to be laid aside to buy food and pay rent during the leaner months.The flat was in the basement of a medium-sized, dilapidated building. Its only light came from a few windows near the ceiling. However, its location was infinitely convenient for a werewolf who was not eager to confirm suspicions as to his true nature. Remus had been able to create a small room beneath his flat in the very foundation of the building. Between chains and soundproofing spells, his transformations could occur in the relative comfort of his own home.Had he had more energy, or had he expected Dumbledore's visit, he would have found a way to meet the Headmaster somewhere other than in his flat.He generally tried not to come into contact with people he had known before the fall of Voldemort at all. Such people invariably looked at him with pity, and, by doing so, cheapened both past and present.But he had no control over this situation, and he had long since resigned himself to the fact that Dumbledore always knew everything about anything about which he happened to want to know. So he simply invited Dumbledore inside."It is good to see you, Remus," said Dumbledore, and he sounded as if he truly meant those words. They sat down together at the wooden table which stood centered in the room. Remus reached for his wand, intending to aim it at the tea kettle. Dumbledore, though, held up a warning hand and set the kettle to whistling himself. "There's no need to play the good host. I rather deliberately visited you on a day I knew you would not be well. Poor manners on my part, I'm afraid.""I'm always delighted to see you, Headmaster," Remus said, and both men knew that this was a vague untruth. Remus had last seen Dumbledore at Peter Pettigrew's funeral, nearly twelve years before."Likewise. But I suppose I'll come to the point so you can get some rest." Remus gave Dumbledore as questioning a glance as he could muster when his eyes were numb with weariness, and Dumbledore withdrew a photograph from his cloak. He placed it face down on the table, and looked up, his bright blue eyes piercing Remus'. "He's about to start his third year.""Who is?"Dumbledore laughed merrily. "Ah, yes, you and your friends were quite the mischief-makers when you were at Hogwarts. You never admitted to knowing what I was talking about when I wondered how the winged horses wound up tethered in the wrong order one morning.""I apologize for that, belatedly," Remus said, because he had to say something, and none of his partners-in-crime were around to feel betrayed. He did not look at the photograph."Apology more than accepted. No harm was done, and I'm sure the horses enjoyed the exercise. And the trophies needed polishing, as well." Remus still refused to overturn the photograph, or to look the least bit curious. Dumbledore chuckled. "I must be getting daft in my old age. I put that down upside down, didn't I? You'll hardly get the idea of what I'm talking about if you can't see it." Dumbledore leaned across the table and turned the picture over.Remus was already resting heavily in his chair, and now he nearly fell out of it. He glanced around warily, looking for the Bludger that had just hit him in the chest. James. No, not James. Harry. Harry, who Remus knew perfectly well had just celebrated his thirteenth birthday.Years had only accentuated Harry's likeness to his father. He had the same messy black hair, and the same round glasses, and the same crooked smile as he embraced his friends. The three of them stood before the Hogwarts Express, smiling and waving at Remus. The boy seemed slightly familiar. He was obviously a Weasley, though Remus could not say how distantly he was related to the red-haired freckle-faced Weasleys he had known before dropping out of proper wizarding society. The girl reminded him of no one in particular, but it did strike him as odd that a wizarding child would have such a pronounced overbite when a shrinking spell could have corrected the problem in seconds."Is the other boy a Weasley?" Remus asked at last.Dumbledore nodded, delighted that Remus had not persisted in pretending that Harry Potter was of no importance to him. "His name is Ronald. Ron, they call him. His parents are Arthur and Molly Weasley-- both Gryffindors, but before your time. Their eldest son-- Ron's eldest brother-- Bill, would have been a second-year when you were a seventh-year. Also in Gryffindor, but classes were rather large then.""I do remember Bill, now that you mention it." The vibrant hair had made the boy instantly recognizable even if he had been five years younger than Remus and his friends. Besides, the young first- and second- years had been most useful targets for a well-timed prank. "What happened to him?""He grew up to be Head Boy, and then curse-breaker for Gringotts."Remus raised his eyebrows. "That's sufficiently impressive.""Another brother in that family will be Head Boy this year. But I didn't come here to talk to you about him." Dumbledore placed one long, bony finger against the image of the thirteen-year-old girl. "This is Hermione Granger. She's Muggle-born." That explained the teeth, at least. "She's as smart a witch as we've ever had come through our school. She's at the top of every one of her classes. I don't believe she's ever failed to get the high mark in an exam."Remus studied the photo more closely. The girl did look deeply intelligent. "She looks clever," he said, buying time, wondering why Dumbledore was telling him about Hermione. Because she's Harry's friend, of course! "They're Harry's best friends, then?""Inseparable, the three of them. They fancy themselves invincible, as well. They didn't get a term into their first year before they went off and fought a mountain troll together.""Snuck out of the castle?" Like father, like son.Dumbledore's eyes lost some of their merriment. "No. The troll was inside the castle.""Inside?""We've had a few problems at Hogwarts in recent years. Harry and his friends don't get into troubling situations so much because they want to as because they have to."Even in his weakened state, Remus sucked in a breath and sat up sharply. "Lord Voldemort hasn't risen again?""No, no. But two years ago, we hired a man to teach Defense Against the Dark Arts who was working for Lord Voldemort. He very nearly stole the Philosopher's Stone.""That's-- well, terrible seems like an understatement.""The Stone was protected by young Mr. Potter.""And I trust you found a new professor.""Yes and no. Last year, we hired Gilderoy Lockhart for the position.""The author of those, er, books?" Remus decided against attaching appropriate adjectives to the word "books." Dumbledore must have had his reasons for hiring the man, after all."That's the one. Grossly incompetent. I don't think our students learned a thing last year.""With all due respect, why did you hire him?"Dumbledore shook his head. "We had very little choice, so we thought it worth the risk.""Very little choice? Who wouldn't jump at the chance to work at Hogwarts?"Dumbledore's eyes flashed briefly with triumph before reverting to their normal, guarded state. "The wizarding world is a very superstitious community."Don't I know that. I've lived that. No one wants anything to do with a werewolf, after all."You are, as you know, a rarity in that you will even say 'Lord Voldemort,'" Dumbledore continued. "And just as our community has convinced itself that saying a man's name will bring a hail of destruction down on our heads, it has convinced itself that the Defense Against the Dark Arts job at Hogwarts is cursed. No one will have the job."Remus rolled his eyes. "Then what are you doing next year?""I intend to convince you to help me.""I haven't been truly connected to the wizarding world for years. I don't know of anyone who could help you."Dumbledore stared fixedly at Remus. "Then I suppose you shall have to come and teach yourself."Remus was stunned. "I'm no more qualified than Lockhart!""I've heard many reports to the contrary. I keep track of my former students as best as I can, Remus, and you have hired yourself out to capture just about every Dark creature our textbooks cover.""You set a beast to catch a beast. You don't set a beast to teach innocent children about beasts.""Weren't you just saying that anyone would jump at the chance to work at Hogwarts?""It would be rather dangerous in my case, Headmaster," said Remus, laughing at the absurdity of Dumbledore's suggestion. The ridiculousness of the idea took some of the meanness out of it. Remus was desperate for work, security, intellectual stimulation, and companionship. Long years of struggling alone had taken their toll, and now Dumbledore was offering to allow him to return to the only place where he had ever been truly happy. He was offering purpose, food, shelter, and friendship. He was offering a chance to interact with James and Lily's son. And yet Remus had to refuse. "I couldn't take the risk of biting a student.""We would make arrangements. No one was ever harmed when you were a student yourself, and that was before the advent of Wolfsbane Potion.""There are only a handful of wizards in the world who can make Wolfsbane Potion.""Professor Snape among them." Remus paled. Severus Snape would not, under any circumstances, be willing to go out of his way for a werewolf who had once nearly bitten him. Dumbledore appeared to read his thoughts. "Professor Snape would be willing to make the potion. The other professors have agreed that you returning to Hogwarts would be the best option in this situation. I take it that you did not see the late edition of yesterday's Daily Prophet?""No." A copy of the paper appeared in Dumbledore's hand. Remus leaned over to see the headline, and received his second major shock of the day. "SIRIUS BLACK ESCAPES AZKABAN!" the paper fairly screamed. Remus' hands shook, and he was forced to set his teacup down quickly. "This can't be.""Almost anything can be.""No one has ever escaped from Azkaban.""Sirius Black never was one to let the status quo rule his behavior.""No," said Remus softly, briefly remembering his childhood friend and not the infamous killer."Soon before he broke out of Azkaban, he began talking in his sleep. He said the same words over and over: 'He's at Hogwarts.'"Remus stared down at the photograph that still sat on the table. Harry smiled and waved up at him. "Harry," Remus whispered."We believe so, yes. Remus, I understand that you want to forget about your past experiences, but you are the best chance we have of figuring out how Sirius Black thinks. You have the knowledge that our students desperately need. And I know that you'd like to renew your acquaintance with Harry. You haven't contacted him since he's come to Hogwarts.""I sent him some photographs of his parents through Hagrid.""He's much more intriguing in person, I assure you. Do you accept the job?" Suddenly, Remus did not trust himself to speak. Instead, he nodded tightly. "Very good. We will be in touch. I suggest that you get some rest now."Dumbledore vanished. Harry, Ron, and Hermione still waved at Remus from the photograph. In spite of the shock of the news about Sirius, Remus felt himself begin to smile. He was going to Hogwarts, where he would never have to worry about food, shelter, or even the dangers of transforming. He would have a job that truly mattered, a job that involved the lessons he had always loved. And he would meet Harry. Harry! The sweet little boy he hadn't seen in over a decade, the boy he had once sworn to defend with his life. A wave of happiness overtook him.X"Expecto patronum," he muttered. A familiar burst of white (shaped like a Gryffindor lion in honor of the place where Remus had first found friendship) issued from his wand.The dementor retreated, and the door shut behind it. Almost immediately, the lights flickered on and the train began to rock comfortingly. Remus turned his attention to Harry, who still lay on the floor. Ron-- in the light, Remus could tell that this was without doubt Ron Weasley-- and Hermione were kneeling protectively on either side of their friend. Inseparable, and fancy themselves invincible, Remus recalled. The other boy-- Neville-probably-Frank-Longbottom's-son-- stood and watched anxiously. Neville was trembling, too, and Remus did not need to wonder why. Neville had horrors in his past that rivaled Harry's. The sixth occupant of the car, a tiny red-haired girl who was almost certainly Ron's sister, was also shaking madly.Merlin's beard. Five children. One sees his parents murdered, one sees his parents driven mad, and one sees herself possessed by the spirit of Tom Riddle.Remus had a job to do. He hunted through his case for the chocolate he had purchased in case of such an emergency. Dumbledore had suggested that he ride the Express rather than Apparate to Hogsmeade so soon after a transformation in large part because he did not trust the dementors to stay within the boundaries set for them.But better the dementors than Sirius.Harry was asking his friends who had screamed.I could tell you who you heard screaming, Harry, but I won't. It's best if you hold on to whatever innocence and happiness you can. Remus cracked the slab of chocolate into pieces. "Here," he said to Harry. "Eat. It'll help."Harry, Remus knew, had been raised as a Muggle and had apparently been subjected to the Muggle refrain of "don't take candy from strangers." He held the chocolate in his hand and eyed it suspiciously. "What was that thing?" Harry demanded.What did you expect, Remus? "Hi, Moony?" He has no idea who you are any longer."A dementor. One of the dementors of Azkaban." Remus gave chocolate to Neville-probably-Frank-Longbottom's-son and red-haired-probably-Ginny-Weasley as well as to Ron and Hermione, who had been less strongly affected. "Eat. It'll help. I need to speak to the driver. Excuse me…"He left the compartment, dropping his outwardly polite manner as he did so. Angrily, he stormed along the corridor, careful to avoid colliding with the still-frightened children who were scampering about, checking on siblings and friends. He arrived at the front of the train and rounded on the driver, careful as always to keep his manner falsely polite but furious nonetheless."Excuse me?"The driver looked up warily. "We're back on schedule, professor. We'll arrive in fifteen minutes.""Of course. I have no doubt that you are a fine driver." The man nodded. "However, I was wondering why we stopped. Some of the students were rather aversely affected by the dementors. Dementors are dangerous creatures, and the students haven't been taught to defend themselves yet. Some of them have rather atrocious pasts, as well. It's only the very youngest who were born after the fall of Lord Voldemort."The driver winced at Remus' use of the name. "I had no choice. It demanded that I stop." The driver shook, and Remus recalled that the man was possibly no more able to defend himself than the students. Many qualified wizards had difficulty with Patronus charms. "I don't like dementors any more than anyone else does.""Are you all right, now?" Remus could not remember a story in which the Hogwarts Express had crashed, and he did not want today to mark the first such incident."Yes." The driver nodded gratefully. "The witch, there, gave me some chocolate from her cart.""Right, then. Do you have some owls here, for emergencies? I'd like to contact Headmaster Dumbledore before we arrive.""Behind the seat."Remus looked down, and surely enough, several Hogwarts owls were sitting smartly in their cages. Remus snatched a scrap of parchment from a roll lying beside the owls and hastily wrote:Professor Dumbledore:You were correct in your assumption that the dementors would not remain inside the boundaries set for them. A dementor caused the Express to stop and boarded the train. He did not leave until forced by a Patronus charm. Many of the students seem rather ill, and Harry Potter lost consciousness briefly. The driver expects us to arrive on schedule despite this interruption. I suggest that Hogwarts be on its guard against uninvited visitors when the students are traveling from the train to the castle.Sincerely,Remus J. LupinHe thanked the driver and returned to the compartment he had been sharing with Harry and his friends. Harry had spoken just four words to him, but Remus already remembered how fiercely protective he had felt of James' son. The adoration Remus had once felt for Lily, James, and Peter had multiplied tenfold and refocused itself on young Harry when Remus had not been paying attention. The magnitude of his feelings was almost frightening.If you want him, Sirius, you'll have to go through me!Not that he expected Sirius to have a problem with that proposition.He opened the door and looked around. Harry, Ron, Hermione, Neville, and Ginny were all in the process of putting themselves to rights, but none of them had touched the chocolate. They've never had a Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher who knew what he was doing, Remus reminded himself. It's rather wise of them not to trust me. But they will feel better if they eat it.He smiled in a way he hoped was non-threatening. "I haven't poisoned that chocolate, you know . . ." Harry was the first to obey his implicit command. Remus tried not to be too obvious in his concern for James' son, and his amusement at the look of wonder that crossed the boy's face when the chocolate began its work. "We'll be at Hogwarts in ten minutes," he told the assembled group. Then unable to resist, he asked "Are you all right, Harry?""Fine," muttered Harry, staring at the floor and clearly embarrassed.I just called him by name, didn't I? He doesn't seem suspicious . . . but, of course, everyone knows who he is. He's the savior of the wizarding world. He's used to everyone knowing his name. And he doesn't care about anything but that he's just fainted in front of his friends. Remus felt his heart constrict again. Oh, Harry, there's no shame in it. You're not the first to collapse before a dementor, and you surely won't be the last. That despicable creature! Drawing up your parents' deaths for you . . . and Sirius. First killing them and then escaping like this, foisting these dementors on the undeserving. How much is Harry supposed to take?Remus remained lost in his thoughts as the train stopped and the multitude embarked on the carriages that quickly drove them to the castle. He settled into the carriage behind the one claimed by Harry and his friends. When the carriage jerked to a stop, he instantly looked for Harry, wanting to drink in the sight of him without being observed. It would look rather odd for a professor to stare at a student, even a famous one, this way."You fainted, Potter? Is Longbottom telling the truth? You actually fainted?" Remus bit down a wave of fury as a boy wearing a Slytherin scarf clambered over to Harry.Harry's friend Ron instantly leapt to his defense. Just like Sir-- no, certainly not! "Shove off, Malfoy." Malfoy. That makes sense... "Did you faint as well, Weasley? Did the scary old dementor frighten you, too, Weasley?"Before Ron could defend Harry with his fists-- and Remus was quite certain that he was willing-- Remus interrupted the meeting. "Is there a problem?" he asked. Young Malfoy gave Remus' a derogatory once-over, but he ceased tormenting Harry and Ron."Oh, no-- er-- Professor." And Malfoy left. I never could have kept Sirius and Severus off of each other that way. It's good to be a professor. Remus smirked to himself, and without waiting around to further embarrass Harry, slipped off in search of the other teachers.Naturally, Dumbledore found Remus before Remus found him. "Remus! We received your owl. Thank you. We believe we've taken appropriate precautions, although the students will have to be a bit more careful about following the rules than they have been in the past." Suddenly, without the vision of Harry to anchor him, Remus felt that he was back in school himself. He and his friends had been rather notorious thanks to their-- mostly Sirius'-- distinct lack of ability to follow rules. Sirius. Unwanted memories of black hair and a mischievous smile swam unbidden to the forefront of Remus' mind. "The feast will start in a moment, but I can take you up to your office first," Dumbledore continued."Thank you, Headmaster.""You're a professor yourself. You don't need to be so formal. Of course, it's your choice."Remus nodded. He had managed to begin calling Professor McGonagall "Minerva" during the short years between graduation and James' death, but it had been so long since he had seen this place that his older, stronger memories were the ones reasserting themselves. Referring to Dumbledore as "Albus," though, had never seemed like a reasonable thing to do.The office was in the same place it had been during Remus' student years. "Your private rooms are behind the bookshelves," Dumbledore explained. "Just push Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them in sideways." He demonstrated, and the wall swung open. Remus gratefully set his case down on the bed, and then followed Dumbledore from the office. He was still quite tired, but the thought of the feast reminded him that he was also ravenous.With some trepidation, he walked to the high table where the professors sat. Each step was more frightening than the last. Almost every member of the Hogwarts faculty had taught Remus for at least part of his own education.How can I ever compete with them?You aren't meant to compete with them. You're meant to manage to get through the year without endangering your students and perhaps teach them a thing or two.My robes . . . my robes! Remus had never paid much mind to his appearance while living in the slum. Now, though, as he saw the other professors dressed in their finest robes, he realized how truly shabby he looked. One did not need to be as conceited as a Malfoy to notice that Remus was nearly wearing rags.It's not the way you look. It's the way you act.That in mind, Remus reached the table."Remus!" squeaked Professor Flitwick, the tiny Charms professor, with no small degree of excitement. Now, Remus could not help but smile. Charms had been one of his favorite subjects as a student (though he had never really been able to compete with Harry's mother for the top mark), and Professor Flitwick was impossible to dislike."Hello, Professor Flitwick. How are you?""Excellent, wonderful! I was delighted when Albus offered you the job. Sit right there." He gestured to a seat near his own. "I want to talk to you. But the Sorting's about to begin." And Professor Flitwick hurried off to set the Hat on its stool in a place of honor.Remus was allowed a brief reprieve from awkward socializing while the Hat sang and the terrified-looking first-years were Sorted. Soon, though, he became aware of eyes boring painfully into him. He turned toward them.It was, of course, Severus Snape. I wonder what Dumbledore had to do to get him to agree to make Wolfsbane potion for me? He obviously hasn't gotten past Sirius' prank. Not that I blame him, but knowing what we do of Sirius now… Remus smiled at Snape-- no, Severus. It would not do to let boyhood rivalries shine through his behavior as a teacher. Severus did not return the smile, and it was with relief that Remus turned his attention to Dumbledore as he began to speak."Welcome! Welcome to another year at Hogwarts! I have a few things to say to you all, and as one of them is very serious, I think it best to get it out of the way before you become befuddled by our excellent feast. As you will all be aware after their search of the Hogwarts Express, our school is presently playing host to some of the dementors of Azkaban, who are here on Ministry of Magic business. They are stationed at every entrance to the grounds, and while they are with us, I must make it plain that nobody is to leave the school without permission. Dementors are not to be fooled by tricks or disguises-- or even Invisibility Cloaks." A wave of nostalgia swept over Remus. Harry obviously had James' cloak, and was using it much the same way that James had. "It is not in the nature of a dementor to understand pleading or excuses. I therefore warn each and every one of you to give them no reason to harm you. I look to the prefects, and our new Head Boy and Girl, to make sure that no student runs afoul of the dementors. On a happier note, I am pleased to welcome two new teachers to our ranks this year. First, Professor Lupin, who has kindly consented to fill the post of Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher."Remus smiled, uncomfortable aware that every eye was focused on him. He had never been especially fond of being the center of attention; a werewolf who wished to remain closeted learned early in life to keep his head down and his mouth shut. The students were clapping half-heartedly, for the most part, as they wondered whether Remus was as much a threat as their previous Defense Against the Dark Arts professors had been; and how easy Remus' classes would be; and why in the world he was dressed in patched, frayed robes.Harry, Remus noted, was applauding much more enthusiastically than were the other students. Polite? Impressed by the Patronus? Knows it would kill me if he didn't like me?"As to our second appointment," Dumbledore continued, "Well, I'm sorry to tell you that Professor Kettleburn, our Care of Magical Creatures teacher, retired at the end of last year in order to enjoy more time with his remaining limbs. However, I am delighted to say that his place will be filled by none other than Rubeus Hagrid, who has agreed to take on this teaching job in addition to his gameskeeping duties."The students roared their approval, and Remus cheered as well. Hagrid had spent a good deal of his time, many years ago, waging a never-ending battle to keep James and Sirius away from the Forbidden Forrest. Remus had to respect any man who could take on such a hopeless fight.Dumbledore concluded his speech. "I think that's everything of importance. Let the feast begin!" Food appeared miraculously, and Remus split his attention between Professor Flitwick and eating as much as he could without looking like a starving wolf.The feast wound down, and Remus headed for his office, weary but happier than he could have expected to be.Professor McGonagall caught up to him just before he reached the door. "Remus! I'm so happy you've come back.""Minerva." Remus smiled tiredly. "I'm happy to be back.""Honestly, you've stayed so far away from us ever since… well, ever since the Potters died.""There was no reason for me to be here."Compassion slid into the sides of her beady eyes. "I'm sorry you feel that way.""Circumstances need to be extenuating for someone in my condition to be allowed into a school.""Oh, Remus… this whole thing must bring back some unpleasant memories for you.""As for everyone else.""You're in a unique situation.""I'm certain that was brought up along with my physical condition when the decision was made to hire me."Minerva shook her head. "Everyone seems politely willing to forget about any friendships you may have had in your past." Her expression darkened. "Almost everyone.""Severus is less than thrilled.""Severus is always less than thrilled, not least because he wants the Defense Against the Dark Arts position for himself.""Why won't Dumbledore give it to him?""Dumbledore has his reasons." Remus nodded. "In any case," Minerva continued, "No one will mention your relationship with Sirius Black, and it's best if you mention it to no one. And do recall that it isn't common knowledge that he was the Potters' Secret-Keeper." She sighed deeply. "He's another thing everyone has been politely willing to forget about. Everyone claims that Gryffindor has never produced a Dark wizard." She laughed bitterly. "Sirius never liked to be ignored.""No." Suddenly, Remus no longer wanted sleep. He knew his dreams would be invaded by Sirius, laughing over Peter's body as over a childhood prank. Minerva seemed to perceive the change in Remus' mood, for she found a new subject."You met Harry on the train, then?"A silly smile plastered itself to Remus' face, but he didn't care. "He's marvelous.""He's many things.""I hope I can be the teacher he deserves."She smiled reassuringly. "You'll be fine. And do make certain that you come to me with any questions you have about the students, discipline, class schedules. Anything.""Refraining from luring Harry into my office and keeping him there as I tell him ad nauseum that he looks just like his father?""He has a very good nature. I'm sure he'd humor you. He probably remembers you.""He wasn't even two the last time I saw him.""Subconsciously, Remus, subconsciously. He was touched by your affection at a very young age. He'll likely have an affinity for you right away."Remus liked that idea. Perhaps he would be able to sleep after all. Minerva soon took her leave, and it was morning before Remus knew it.The morning, though, did not pass smoothly. Those professors who had bothered to seek Remus out in the chaos of the opening feast had been the ones eager to see him. On the morning that classes began, however, he was forced to interact with those members of the faculty and staff who were unable to fathom why Albus Dumbledore chose to trust a werewolf, and a former friend of Sirius Black to boot. Foremost in this group was Severus Snape.They happened to enter the Great Hall at the same time."Good morning, Severus," Remus said. He knew that his overture would be rebuffed, but he could not fail to make it."What was Albus thinking?" Severus muttered under his breath. Slightly louder, he said "I'll be watching you, Lupin. I'll see that you don't do to these students what you tried to do to me." The years that had passed since Sirius' amusing prank had increased, not decreased, Severus' bitterness. "And I'll not let you help your partner in crime into the castle, as you helped him out of Azkaban.""I assure you, I did nothing of the sort," replied Remus mildly, although his blood was boiling. He had long ago learned that the best way to handle people like Severus was to kill them with kindness. If nothing else, it would at least confuse Severus, and that could be slightly entertaining. More importantly, little as he liked it, Remus would soon be in Severus' debt. It would not do to fight with the man who would make the Wolfsbane potion Remus so needed. "I didn't even know Sirius had escaped until Professor Dumbledore came to see me about this job.""A likely story," sneered Severus. "Stay away from me. And don't give any trouble to the members of my house, or there will be Hell to pay!"Remus just barely stopped himself from asking to which house Severus belonged. Any fun he had with Severus would need to be more subtle. (For while he knew that the list of reasons for being friendly to Severus was long, Remus had not yet lost the sense of humor that had once bound him to James, Peter, and even Sirius.)Severus stalked away, and Remus ate his breakfast and proceeded to his first classes in peace. To his delight, his first day was filled with little trouble. The students were Hufflepuffs and Ravenclaws and therefore neither members of the house he was eager to teach nor members of the house he half-dreaded teaching. At the end of the day, he found himself in the faculty lounge studying the rosters for the classes he was to meet the next day. Professor Flitwick sat near him, a tiny but powerful guardian against those who would have objected to Remus' presence in this room.Remus was interestedly matching the surnames of his new students to the surnames of his former classmates when Minerva entered the room."Minerva!" exclaimed Professor Flitwick cheerfully. "Did you get cheers from the third-years when you transformed for them again this year?"She shook her head in an annoyed sort of way. "No.""No?""It's the first time-- oh, Remus, you'll enjoy this story as well." Remus obediently tore his eyes away from his roster and gave Minerva his full attention. "The third-years I had today were my own. The Gryffindors.""A fine class," said Professor Flitwick, though all present knew that he was in truth partial to his own Ravenclaws."Under ordinary circumstances," Minerva agreed, accepting the compliment. "But they had just returned from their first class in," she sneered in a manner reminiscent of Severus, "Divination. Sibyll Trelawny just adores starting off the new year by predicting the death of a student. And she thought she'd tell Harry Potter he has a deadly enemy. I'm certain that came as a shock to him. She went on to see the Grim in his tea leaves, and with all that Harry goes through his classmates were ready to believe her.""Is he all right?" Remus asked before he could help himself.Minerva turned the full force of her sharp gaze on Remus. "Don't tell me you've come to consider omens legitimate magic?""I didn't mean it that way. She is a professor, and he's a student. It could be a cause for concern for him."Minerva softened at this. "No, no. I think I convinced them all not to take her class too seriously. Harry is much too level-headed in most things to worry over it. He didn't grow up hearing wizard superstitions, either."Remus took Minerva at her word and the conversation turned to other topics. Much to Remus' chagrin, though, it was nearly a week before he had the opportunity to teach Harry himself.As it happened, on the day of the third-year Gryffindors' first lesson in Defense Against the Dark Arts, Remus was late in arriving at his own classroom. He had been checking to see that all was well with the boggart with which he planned to allow them to work. When he entered the room, he found eight students sitting at their desks with their textbooks and quills expectantly awaiting his orders."Good afternoon," he greeted them. "Would you please put all your books back in your bags. Today's will be a practical lesson. You will need only your wands." The class obeyed, and Remus felt them sizing him up, as each of his other classes had done during the previous week. "Right, then. If you'd follow me."The group had not gotten very far down the corridor when Peeves appeared in front of them. To one who had been dead as long as Peeves, the time which had passed since Remus has been a student himself must have seemed very short indeed. Peeves had never been fond of Remus. One of the poltergeist's favorite pastimes was ratting out students who were out of bed during night hours, and while Remus and his friends had often broken curfew, they had seldom been caught thanks to James' invisibility cloak and the Marauder's Map.Peeves began to sing. "Loony, loopy Lupin, loony, loopy Lupin, loony, loopy Lupin--"Remus ignored the song and instead suggested that Peeves cease his present occupation of stuffing chewing gum in keyholes. Peeves ignored him, and Remus sighed. The life he had led since graduating hardly left him in fear of a poltergeist, but he did need the whole of his class time to ensure that his students would defeat the boggart."This is a useful little spell," he informed the group trailing after him. "Please watch closely." He then focused his attention on Peeves' gum. "Waddiwasi!" As planned, the gum flew out of the keyhole and into Peeves' face; more specifically, it flew into Peeves' nostril. Perfect."Cool, sir!" one of Harry's roommates, a Muggle-born boy named Dean Thomas exclaimed spontaneously."Thank you, Dean. Shall we proceed?" He led them to the staffroom and ushered them inside.The room was deserted but for Severus, who immediately stood up to leave. "I'd rather not witness this," he said sourly. "Possibly no one's warned you, Lupin, but this class contains Neville Longbottom. I would advise you not to entrust him with anything difficult. Not unless Miss Granger is hissing instructions in his ear."As it happened, Remus had heard several tales of Neville's academic difficulties from the other professors, but each story had been tempered by the speaker's knowledge of the fate of Frank Longbottom. Severus, though, showed Neville no mercy. "I was hoping Neville would assist me with the first stage of the operation, and I am certain he will perform it admirably." He hoped that his words would reassure Neville, but they only shooed Severus from the room, which was a welcome substitute effect."Now, then," Remus resumed. Before he could give the class their instructions, the wardrobe wobbled and several students jumped. "Nothing to worry about," he assured. "There's a boggart in there." It was simple work to tell which of the students had grown up in wizarding families and which had not. Neville, in particular, looked petrified, but Remus continued speaking so as not to worsen any of the students' anxieties. "Boggarts like dark, enclosed spaces. Wardrobes, the gap beneath beds, the cupboards under sinks-- I've even met one that had lodged itself in a grandfather clock. This one moved in yesterday afternoon, and I asked the headmaster if the staff would leave it to give my third-years some practice. So, the first question we must ask ourselves is, what is a boggart?"Hermione raised her hand, as Remus had been told she would. He nodded, and she, as predicted, gave a textbook-perfect answer: "It's a shape-shifter. It can take the shape of whatever it thinks will frighten us most.""Couldn't have put it better myself. So the boggart sitting in the darkness within has not yet assumed a form. He does not yet know what will frighten the person on the other side of the door. Nobody knows what a boggart looks like when he is alone, but when I let him out, he will immediately become whatever each of us most fears. This means that we have a huge advantage over the boggart before we begin. Have you spotted it, Harry?" I want to hear his voice again."Er-- because there are so many of us, it won't know what shape it should be?" Though the answer was correct, Harry sounded entirely unsure of himself, and Remus carefully forced himself not to go overboard praising the boy. It wouldn't do to make it seem like you have any more of an interest in him than in any of the other students. It's a small leap from telling him you knew his father to telling him Sirius Black is his godfather. Remus managed to quiz the class on the pronunciation of the Riddikulus Charm without focusing overly much on Harry, and then returned his attention to Neville. Frank's son certainly needed his courage built up after Severus' abominable behavior. It would be best to help him decide exactly what to do with the boggart, if possible.Neville, though, did not seem eager to tell his classmates what he most feared. "Professor Snape," he at last managed to whisper. The other students laughed.Opportunity knocks… "Professor Snape…hmmm… Neville, I believe you live with your grandmother?""Er-- yes," said Neville, still nervous. "But-- I don't want the boggart to turn into her, either.""No, no, you misunderstand me." Remus was unable to wipe the smile from his face. "I wonder, could you tell us what sort of clothes your grandmother usually wears?" This is inspired. This is going to be good!"Well… always the same hat. A tall one with a vulture on top. And a long dress… green, normally… and sometimes a fox-fur scarf.""And a handbag?" Mustn't miss a trick."A big red one.""Right, then. Can you picture those clothes very clearly, Neville? Can you see them in your mind's eye?""Yes," said Neville."When the boggart bursts out of this wardrobe, Neville, and sees you, it will assume the form of Professor Snape. And you will raise your wand-- thus-- and cry 'Riddikulus'-- and concentrate hard on your grandmother's clothes. If all goes well, Professor Boggart Snape will be forced into that vulture-topped hat, and that green dress, with that big red handbag."The students clearly approved of this plan.It's almost as if no time has passed… imagine what James would think! James had been a great prankster; he could have put all of these students to shame. And Peter. Sweet Peter. Peter had been a victim one too many times to be a great fan of practical jokes, but even he would have admitted that Severus could do with a bit of comeuppance after tormenting poor Neville this way."If Neville is successful, the boggart is likely to shift his attention to each of us in turn," Remus warned the other students. "I would like all of you to take a moment now to think of the thing that scares you most, and imagine how you might force it to look comical."After a moment, the students looked ready, with one notable exception. Harry.I'm not going to let you battle Lord Voldemort, anyway, Harry. You've done that too many times already. And I have no desire for you to relive your parents' deaths yet again. I have no desire to relive that myself… you have no idea. And I'll not give you an idea.He backed the group away from the wardrobe and counted three.Surely enough, the boggart emerged as a remarkable likeness of Severus Snape. Neville rose to the occasion. "Riddikulus!" The room shook with laughter.You asked for it, Severus, Remus thought briefly before ordering Parvati Patil-- whose identical twin he had already taught-- forward. A mummy. Parvati did well. "Seamus!" A banshee. Ordinary, straightforward fears. It was reassuring, in a way. The boggart was not a powerful specimen, and it grew confused almost instantly. It became a rat, a rattlesnake, an eyeball without prompting. "Dean!" A severed hand. "Ron!" A spider. Good. Ron was the last of the wizarding children in the room, and a Muggle child like Hermione or Lavender was unlikely to see a werewolf… not that Remus was unused to such things, but he preferred not to have his students terrified of him all the same.But the boggart did not turn to Hermione or Lavender. Instead, it turned to Harry, and Remus was forced to step forward and provoke the familiar shape of the moon. The boggart was vanquished soon afterwards, and Remus sent the class away with instructions to write an essay on boggarts.Before he had even put the staff room to rights, the feedback on his lesson began."Well, Remus," said Minerva as she entered the room. "I see you made the most out of your first opportunity to teach Harry."Remus turned around disbelievingly. "The class ended five minutes ago."She briefly looked as if she might laugh, but she kept her beady gaze fixed. "News travels fast.""I see."Any other observations she might have made were lost when the door banged open angrily. "LUPIN!" snarled Severus before he had made it all the way inside the room."Hello, Severus," he replied mildly as he pretended to continue straightening the room. He was not in the least afraid of looking Severus in the face (abnormally large nose or not), but neither was he eager to cause a disruption in the faculty lounge. He felt enough like a student without sparring with a boyhood rival."LOOK AT ME WHEN YOU TALK TO ME, LUPIN!"So much for that. Remus turned around slowly. "There's no need to shout, Severus." And I'm not one of your students, he refrained from adding."THERE'S NO NEED TO SHOUT? WHAT DID YOU THINK YOU WERE DOING?""Doing? I was teaching my class. I thought you realized that. I did invite you to stay.""YOU WERE NOT TEACHING! YOU WERE USING YOUR POSITION TO FURTHER YOUR INFANTILE GAMES!" Remus was so fascinated by Severus' outrage, complete with spitting and stomping of feet, that he nearly forgot to be offended by the man's words."I certainly did not intend to," he replied, keeping his tones measured as always."It was hardly an accident," Severus hissed, at last lowering his voice. "Slandering a fellow professor-- I would have thought that there were some things that even you were above--" he broke off, still glowering at Remus."I can hardly control what my students see in their boggarts. You're attributing powers to me that I simply don't possess."Severus tossed his head. "I imagine that your friend Black taught you a few tricks."In spite of himself, Remus stiffened at the use of Sirius' name. Severus, feeling the glare being directed at him by Minerva, seemed to perceive that he had gone a bit too far. Calling Sirius by name had nearly become akin to calling Lord Voldemort by name. Before he could be reprimanded, he stormed from the room. Remus, after being asked to describe his class for a few new arrivals, left as well. Never an overly outgoing man, he suddenly felt very much like being left alone. His burst of antisocial behavior was triggered not by Severus, whose bluster was not difficult to ignore, but by the mention of Sirius Black's name.I ought to get used to it, he reminded himself. Since the morning that Dumbledore had shown him the Daily Prophet with its enormous headline pertaining to Sirius' escape, the images of Halloween, 1981, had never seemed to lurk far below the surface of any conversation. Even the Hogwarts students who had no way of remembering the war were constantly mentioning the presence of dementors, and dementors meant Sirius.Almost everything meant Sirius. For twelve years, he had thought he had properly relegated his memories of Sirius to a category labeled "started well, ended badly, retrieve with caution." Now, though, his sometime friend had returned to haunt him with a vengeance.Even infuriating Severus Snape brought back memories of Sirius. Why shouldn't it? he reflected with a trace of bitterness. Why does Severus hate me? Because of Sirius! Though that hardly makes the list of "worst things Sirius Black ever did" any longer.Or did the connection between Sirius and Severus begin even before that miserable full moon?Severus Snape had always hated James Potter. Remus had never asked James why; and now he would never have the chance. The general suspicion, though, was that he was simply jealous. It hadn't helped that James had eventually won the affection of Lily, Severus' childhood friend. Furthermore, James had been a favorite among many of the professors. He had been so smart and so charming that his trouble-making nature had never bothered the professors for longer than it took James to serve out his detention.In fact, James' pranks seemed to make him even more memorable and endearing to nearly everyone whose path he crossed. Severus, by contrast, was watched with an air of dislike by adult witches and wizards who suspected that their student had a better working knowledge of Dark Magic than they themselves did. In addition, Severus was not pleased to learn that James had been granted an obscene amount of natural Quidditch talent and had made a spectacular Gryffindor team as a second-year. Such a feat was nearly unheard-of.Today, because James was at Quidditch practice-- Sirius was almost certain to make the team as a third-year, but had missed out thus far-- and Peter was in the hospital wing after a miserable potions accident, Remus and Sirius were sitting alone together in the Gryffindor Common Room. They were the only second-years to be seen; the whereabouts of the girls and the other boys were anyone's guess. Remus was peacefully looking over his Herbology essay and waiting for Sirius to explode. Explode Sirius did. "We have to do something!" he snapped. A handful of older students sent disdainful looks in their direction, and Sirius lowered his voice. "How can you sit there so calmly?""It's hard to read when you're jumping all over the place," Remus replied."When I am or when you are?""Either.""Maybe you should stop reading.""I already have.""Good." Sirius leaned in closer to Remus. "Have you started planning?"Remus raised an eyebrow. "You're much better at planning than I am," he said truthfully.Sirius raised an eyebrow in return. "Has anyone ever told you that false modesty is a sin?""I'm not being modest. It's true.""No," Sirius temporarily pretended to agree. "You're not modest at all. Remember how you told us that you were terrible at potions? I've never seen a bad mark out of you yet.""I study.""Really? I hadn't noticed. Maybe if I lived with you or something I'd know more about what you do--" he broke off with a gesture meant to suggest that he had just remembered something. "Wait-- I do live with you. And I know that you study far too much. You don't need to. You must be near the top in every one of our subjects.""You're ahead of me in most of them," Remus pointed out."The fact that you actually know that frightens me. Are you trying to make prefect?"Remus shook his head emphatically. "No.""Then why study?""Well, you know-- I owe it to Dumbledore to do well. Since he admitted me and all." Remus felt his stomach lurch as a calculating, thoughtful look passed briefly across Sirius' features."Why wouldn't he admit you? You come from a good family, don't you? Has there ever been any sign that you aren't going to be powerfully magical?""No," Remus corrected a bit too quickly. "But Hogwarts is one of the best schools of magic in the world. It's an honor to be let in. No one can be certain of getting a place.""I don't know why that's to do with Dumbledore.""It isn't. I was just talking." Remus decided to change the subject. "Do you have an idea?""For the Slytherins?""No, for James. Of course for the Slytherins." Remus found himself inexplicably mildly annoyed; but then, Sirius had been asking the questions that he had the least possible business asking.Sirius, though, laughed. Sirius laughed loudly and often. He spent the better part of his life laughing. "I always keep a store of ideas for James. And for the Slytherins.""Well?""I don't want to use just any idea on them this time. They need something special after today." His usually open face darkened, and Remus understood why. The same potions "accident" which had landed Peter in Madam Pomfrey's care had also sent most of the class scurrying for safety in a nearby dungeon. The potions master had ordered them to stay there, and while a cancelled class was usually cause for celebration, on this occasion the time had been spent shivering in a cold, dank room that was not usually kept open or maintained. The moon was a mere two days past its fullness, and Remus had found particular difficulty in keeping himself warm and alert.His transformations had been especially dreadful as of late. The doctor who had treated him when he received the Bite had long ago informed his parents that when puberty arrived, the Curse would be especially violent. His human body's efforts to grow would be thwarted by his periodic physical ordeals, and the transformations themselves became more complex as rapidly growing bones and muscles already stretched to their limits were reshaped unforgivingly into a wolf's bones and muscles. In addition, Remus found himself worrying incessantly about his friends' suspicions as to where he went each month and as to why his health was so poor. And when Remus was in a less-than-optimal emotional state, the wolf was so as well.After a moment's intense concentration, Sirius suggested that they, along with James, sneak into the Slytherin second-years' dormitory and light fire to a potion which would send them all to the hospital wing along with Peter. Remus was less than enthusiastic."The trouble with you, Remus," Sirius declared, "is that you have no sense of the poetic.""The trouble with you, Sirius," Remus returned, "is that you have no sense at all.""Thank you," said Sirius. "Your turn. All this thinking is hurting my head.""Why do it now? Why not wait for an opportunity?""You're missing the point. They need to be taught a lesson. We don't want them to try this again next week. They have to know who did it to them and why.""We could transfigure their room so it looks like the one we were stuck in. And feels like it and smells like it. Then we could charm all of their books so they only open to the lesson we're going to have to make up next weekend. We rewrite their non-potions texts to be potions texts, of course," Remus suggested, hoping that Sirius understood the concept of facetiousness."Maybe in a few more years. At least you're trying properly now." Sirius stared hard at his friend for a long beat. "What if we found a way to kick them out of their room the way we were kicked out of the potions room? In the middle of the night? Perhaps we could even get them outside-- did you look at the ceiling in the Great Hall? Was it raining?""Yes," said Remus. He was notorious for staring at the Great Hall's enchanted ceiling. He claimed that he simply admired the charmwork and never tired of gazing at it; in truth, though, he could not tear his eyes from the moon, or the lack of the moon.Sirius snapped his fingers. "Brilliant! We'll get the Invisibility Cloak and sneak in there tonight and set off a protective charm, and block the exits so their head of house has to take them outside!" He slumped back into his seat, plan completed."If we COULD block the exits, which I don't think we can, we'd have to do it ahead of time," said Remus, amused as he always was to find himself taking one of his friend's schemes seriously. "Or at the very least figure out how.""Naturally. It's all in the timing.""Timing," Remus repeated. Slowly, he smiled. "What if we put the spell on a delay?""Which spell?""The one that sets off the protective charm. The one that makes the climate change suddenly?"Sirius' eyes widened with respect and delight. While many of the professors lamented that Sirius seemed to do a great deal of nothing-- he simply had the sort of brain that made studying unnecessary-- Sirius could work like a madman when he was motivated. In less than fifteen minutes, he had uncovered an appropriate charm in the back of a spell encyclopedia which a student had donated to the Common Room for general reference. After a quick dash up the stairs to drag James' Cloak out of his trunk, a newly invisible Sirius and Remus crept along quiet corridors. James had found the entrance to the Slytherin Common Room quite by accident at the end of their first year, and this knowledge was put to good use. When a dull-looking sixth-year muttered the password ("aspire"), the cloaked figure slipped inside behind him. They wandered around the dungeon room, so unlike their own Gryffindor Tower, and to their disgust could see no passages that might lead to sleeping rooms. However, they did see Snape's friend Avery, who was looking more innocuous than usual with a book open in his lap and the crazed expression he always wore muted by relaxation. Sirius smiled. Remus grabbed Sirius' wrist tightly with one hand and relieved his friend of his wand with the other.Sirius scowled.As quietly as he could Remus mumbled a dueling charm he had picked up while watching older students practice. Avery's quill snapped in two, and Avery, after swearing and looking around for a spare quill to swipe, rose and headed for one austere wall.He walked through it.Sirius and Remus followed, and as soon as Avery had returned to the Common Room they laid their trap. Deciding not to push their luck, they retreated from the dormitory and then the Common Room.As they exited Slytherin territory, though, they suffered from a brief moment of carelessness. They walked directly into two sweating, muddy members of Slytherin's Quidditch team who were obviously returning from practice."WHAT?" yelled one. Wildly, Remus noted that the Cloak had slipped from their shoulders in the scuffle. Hastily, he stuffed it beneath his robes. Damage control called for the Slytherins not learning about James' Cloak so early in their collective Hogwarts career."Excuse us," said Remus, though he doubted that politeness would go far with this crowd."Excuse you? WHAT WERE YOU DOING IN OUR COMMON ROOM?""Oh? Is your Common Room here?" asked Sirius innocently. "We had no idea." He glanced about theatrically. "Which wall opens up? Or is it the ceiling?"The Slytherin stepped menacingly toward Sirius. Sirius was tall for his age, but his potential opponent was at least five years his senior. "EITHER YOU KNOW OR YOU'RE TRYING TO FIND OUT, YOU LITTLE-- GRYFFINDOR! WHY ELSE WOULD YOU BE HERE?"Sirius gulped, but he did not need to find an answer. Someone answered for him.James had arrived. It seemed that Gryffindor, too, had just finished its Quidditch practice. "They came to meet me at the door, like they always do when I have practice!" he announced. "They've been walking with us this whole time. D'you think they could just appear out of nowhere?" The Slytherin team, which had now arrived in its entirety, looked dumfounded. "Good," said James. "You've been escorted back to your dungeon, as promised. And we'll be going now."The three hastened back to Gryffindor Tower. Remus silently handed the Cloak to James. James accepted it and mock-glared at Sirius. "What have I told you about taking this without permission?""Do it often, and make good mischief?" inquired Sirius."Right! Report?"Sirius and Remus explained their afternoon's work to James, who nodded sagely. "You shouldn't be caught back there tonight, fixing doors," he said."Neither should you," Sirius pointed out. James nodded. "Oh, well. We can't have a perfect prank every time," he said nonchalantly. "Have you visited Peter yet? Perhaps he'll be released this evening.""Are you ma--" Sirius began, and then grinned. "No. It's time we paid Peter a visit."Peter returned from the hospital wing that evening, looking immensely pleased with himself.The next morning, at breakfast, the four friends were thrilled to see that the whole of Slytherin House looked tired and cold. Many of them were coughing, and Madam Pomfrey bustled around the table with flasks of Pepper-Up Potion. Remus was slightly taken aback to see how much damage their plot had wrought. Sirius, though, just suppressed a laugh. "Look at Snape, look at Snape!" he repeated as Dumbledore stood up and warned the student body against such potentially harmful mischief."He'd have done anything to hurt Severus," Remus said to himself as he shook off the vestiges of his daydream. "He was a bit mad, even at twelve."Remus supposed that he deserved to suffer, just a bit, for being an accessory to Sirius' madness.And when the first full moon of the school year arrived far too quickly, Severus took full advantage of the opportunity to make Remus suffer. He stormed into Remus' office without knocking on the evening that Remus was to take his first dose of the potion. "LUPIN! Don't waste my time! Drink this!" he demanded."Thank you, Severus," said Remus with rising dread. He could smell the Wolfsbane, and the thought of actually consuming it was not a happy one. His lips curled involuntarily as he raised the smoking goblet to his mouth. He barely suppressed a gasp as the first swallow of potion burned its way down his throat.Severus shifted impatiently on his feet. "Hurry up," he said petulantly."You don't need to watch me drink it.""And chance having a wild beast loose around my students? I don't believe so," Severus snarled."You have my word that I will--""The word of a werewolf? Dumbledore ordered me to make certain that you took your potion the week before the full moon this year. And I will do it, though I must say that I began to lose faith in him the moment he began to talk about hiring you."Remus ignored the insult. "I can't drink it any faster.""Yes, you can. I tested it myself.""Honestly? You tested it?" Remus smiled to himself. Each second spent asking Severus a question was a second not spent willing himself to drink the toxicity-radiating potion."Of course I tested it! If you dropped dead, McGonagall and the rest of your fan club would waste no time in telling Albus I killed you on purpose."Remus finished the vile concoction and returned the goblet to its owner, who accepted it as if it were coated with some repulsive substance."I'll return tomorrow," Severus growled, and left the room with much swishing of robes.He did return; nonetheless, when the hour of the transformation finally came, Remus found himself a nervous wreck. I should have gone out to the Shrieking Shack, he thought. Dumbledore had insisted that Severus had his complete confidence, and that Remus should simply lock himself in his office and "get some sleep, as I understand that many animals sleep much more soundly than their human counterparts." Remus suspected that something or someone was standing guard near the entrance of his office in case the potion did not work, but his anxiety rose with each passing moment.Finally, he stripped himself naked and placed his clothes atop a bookshelf: out of the wolf's reach but easy for him to recover in the morning. The familiar pains of the transformation began.He had outgrown screaming in his late teens. The screams had always been more of terror and anticipation than of pain, as the worst part of the transformation frequently left him breathless. He had screamed when the transformation began, with the stiffening and lengthening of his spine, and the sprouting of fur and claws. This first stage was not, by his standards, terribly painful.The later stages, however . . . he tried not to think about the later stages.Remus got to his feet, and found that he had four. He was a wolf, with deadly claws and a long muzzle and a tail-- and a completely human mind.He wished that he had left a mirror uncovered in this room so that he could see himself with his human-wolf eyes. Never before had his thoughts been clear enough at this time of the month for him to be capable of having such a wish. The only times he had had even the slightest recollections of his human identity had been the times when he had run with Prongs and Wormtail and Padfoot.Padfoot.So far as Remus knew, the story of the Animagus abilities of James and Peter had died with them. And as for Sirius, surely the Dark Magic he had learned from Lord Voldemort had rendered his schoolboy tricks obsolete.I should tell Dumbledore about Sirius. I don't believe the Ministry knows. The Daily Prophet has not warned its readers to look for a black dog. Surely if they knew, I would have been questioned. Every member of the staff at this school knows that Sirius and I were friends.Or do they? Perhaps the majority of the faculty members did not mention, even in a secretive whisper, Remus' ties to Sirius out of politeness. And perhaps they had forgotten. James and Peter were remembered as the hero and the martyr, while Sirius was their killer. Remus fit nowhere into the equation. Remus was what had been left over with the Dark Lord vanquished.Dumbledore may not know about Padfoot. Dumbledore should know about Padfoot. Remus wondered how this thought had not come to the forefront of his mind sooner.Now that I don't have to worry about transformations, or my teaching ability, or being a complete outcast from society, Sirius would be more important.Remus had ignored Sirius for many years, and Sirius was having his revenge, firstly by taking over Remus' thoughts and secondly by transforming his bitterness into guilt. It's almost nice to be important enough to feel guilty. Almost.I'll tell Dumbledore when I'm human again.But on Halloween, as the next full moon approached, Remus had not spoken to the headmaster. He told himself that he was busy with his classes and with his new life, which was changing almost as rapidly as he could handle. Changing location every few months during the years since the fall of Voldemort had been exhausting, but it had been a habit. Now, he had new habits of eating when he was hungry, finding company when he was lonely, and expecting help when he felt ill. He had a wonderful collection of students to teach, and among them was Harry. He had managed to stop staring at and obsessing over James' son, but long years of wondering about the boy still made him appreciate each opportunity for interaction.Think of the devil…Harry was wandering aimlessly past Remus' door without his usual escorts. "Harry?" Remus called. Harry circled back and faced Remus. "What are you doing? Where are Ron and Hermione?""Hogsmeade," said Harry.Of course. He can't be allowed to go because of Sirius. If I could get my hands around Sirius' neck… or Padfoot's… I should talk to Dumbledore. Despite his confused thoughts, Remus heard himself ask Harry to come inside. "I've just taken delivery of a grindylow for our next lesson," he explained. And Defense Against the Dark Arts is exactly why I want to talk to you."A what?" asked Harry. He actually seemed interested in the lesson, and this pleased Remus greatly."Water demon." Remus slipped easily into professorial mode. "We shouldn't have much difficulty with him, not after the kappas. The trick is to break his grip. You notice the abnormally long fingers? Strong, but very brittle." The obvious topic avoided, Remus offered his student a cup of tea. "I've only got teabags, I'm afraid-- but I daresay you've had enough of tea leaves?" he could not resist asking. Minerva did say he took it well.Harry's head shot up. "How did you know about that?""Professor McGonagall told me. You're not worried, are you?""No," said Harry. He then proceeded to lose the air of anxiety that had surrounded him since being invited into a strange professor's office as he slipped into his own thoughts. His young face was a mask of concern.Not worried about tea leaves, but worried about something. He wears his emotions on his sleeve. He's like James. And Sirius… Sirius who I might be able to deliver him from. "Anything worrying you, Harry?"Harry carefully made eye contact with the grindylow rather than with his professor. "Yes," he admitted. "You know that day we fought the boggart?"Over a month ago! "Yes." As long as he's worried about the boggart rather than Sirius, there's no need to go Dumbledore about Padfoot…"Why didn't you let me fight it?"Remus raised his eyebrows in surprise. He knew that Harry liked to project himself as tough, but he had not seen this coming. "I would have thought that was obvious, Harry.""Why?" Harry repeated."Well, I assumed that if the boggart faced you, it would assume the shape of Lord Voldemort." Harry stared at Remus as if the thought had never occurred to him. "Clearly, I was wrong. But I didn't think it a good idea for Lord Voldemort to materialize in the staffroom. I imagined people would panic.""I didn't think of Voldemort" he doesn't say 'You-Know-Who!' "I-- I remembered those dementors.""I see. Well, well… I'm impressed." Harry gave Remus a look of utter shock. Doesn't have a very lofty opinion of himself for an internationally renowned celebrity, does he? "That suggests that what you fear most of all is-- fear. Very wise, Harry." Again, Harry fell silent. Remus decided to ask the obvious question. "So you've been thinking that I didn't believe you capable of fighting the boggart?"Harry answered in the affirmative and had brightened dramatically when Severus interrupted, managing for once to knock. Harry's eyes locked on the smoking goblet of Wolfsbane Potion; he was obviously concerned. At last, he blurted out "Professor Snape's very interested in the Dark Arts."Still famous, are you, Severus? "Really?""Some people reckon-- some people reckon he'd do anything to get the Defense Against the Dark Arts job."Touching as it was to see Harry attempting to protect him, Remus decided that Harry had best leave before he asked a question that Remus did not want to answer.The Halloween Feast was a celebration, and for that reason Remus did not feel the need to mention Sirius' special abilities to Dumbledore. He deserves to celebrate, Remus told himself. Harry is safe at Hogwarts, and Sirius won't be able to get inside. Lord Voldemort himself couldn't break Hogwarts' barriers at the height of his power.These thoughts kept Remus feeling safe and happy until, as the students filed from the Great Hall, a sharp summons came from Professor Dumbledore. There was a commotion before the entrance to the Gryffindor Common Room, and before Dumbledore was able to convince Peeves to tell him what had happened, Remus knew. "Nasty temper he's got, that Sirius Black," grinned Peeves.Dumbledore gave directions to most of the faculty members present, but to Remus he just nodded. Remus recalled the man's months-earlier remark: You are the best chance we have of figuring out how Sirius Black thinks.Not that it took much figuring. He flew from floor to floor, checking secret passages. Four he found protected, and a fifth he found blocked. The sixth would have been his own last choice; the statue of the old crone was not in a deserted section of the school, and the passageway was barely wide enough for a boy to squeeze through. Sirius had, by the time he reached adulthood, been a tall and muscular man. He could not have climbed in or out quickly unless he had lost a great deal of weight while on the run.Though Remus had managed to attain a respectable height, his own form would always remain slight thanks to his monthly transformation. He had little trouble climbing into the passageway. "Lumos!"As far as he could see, he was alone."SIRIUS! PADFOOT! GET BACK HERE!" There was no reply. He had not expected that to work in any case."Accio Sirius!" He concentrated as hard as he could, but the spell did not take effect. Sirius was not in the tunnel.Tiredly, Remus checked the secret rooms that might have been near Sirius' escape route, but he found nothing. At three o'clock in the morning, the search was called off, and by evening Remus was succumbing to the throes of the wolf. He had remembered to leave a mirror out so that he could, for the first time, get a good look at his alter ego. He had not remembered to tell Dumbledore about Padfoot. Or Padfoot's hobbies.When he awoke the next morning, he was guilty, tired, and depressed. The transformation left him feeling too ill to move, although he did manage to clothe himself. That would lessen the humiliation when someone came in to ensure that he had not broken out of the castle and eaten an innocent passerby. He closed his eyes once more, and opened them to the gentle touch of Madam Pomfrey."You should come to the hospital wing," she told him."No," he croaked reflexively before remembering his manners. "Madam Pomfrey, it really isn't necessary to trouble yourself. I'm not hurt, only tired.""You have a temperature," she informed him."That hardly merits my taking up your time--""Nonsense. You're just as bad as when you were a student, if not worse." He submitted to the rest of her examination. "Very well," she sighed. "You may stay here, but you are not to attempt to teach under any circumstances. Someone can take over for you.""Thank you," said Remus wearily. He fell back on his pillows as soon as the nurse left, and reminded himself to tell Dumbledore about Sirius as soon as he felt better. His symptoms abated none too quickly, however, and he missed not only a full day of classes but a Quidditch match featuring Gryffindor. Dumbledore, looking as angry as he had ever seen him, called an emergency staff meeting at which Remus was informed that a hoard of dementors had gotten loose and that Harry had had the predictable reaction. He had fallen from his broom, and while he had thankfully escaped unhurt, the broom itself had hit the Whomping Willow. One more cause for guilt.He returned to classes full of students who were eager to tell him that he was in all ways superior to Severus, and once again he could not help but be reminded of Sirius. Still, he could hardly spend his time anguishing over Sirius when his students had all been assigned an essay on werewolves.It was nice to see that sometimes people did things which were entirely in character. Severus Snape had never bothered to grow up."We don't know anything about werewolves!" one student after another cried indignantly. Irony was another nice thing. Un-assigning the homework Severus had assigned was also great fun, although several students had already completed the assignment.The seventh-year Gryffindors were particularly perturbed by Severus' actions. Several of them were deeply interested in their curriculum, which consisted of advanced spells that protected against curses and hexes. That, Remus supposed, was only natural; Gryffindors were famous for fancying themselves heroes and often wanted to become aurors or Hit Wizards. He allowed them to complain themselves out; Severus' behavior had bordered on unconscionable.He was about to turn his attention back to the lessons Severus had pre-empted when Percy Weasley raised his hand. "Sir, may I ask one question?""Of course, Percy.""How do you think Sirius Black got into the castle on Halloween?" The other students leaned forward in their seats, obviously keen to hear Remus' reply."I have no better idea than anyone else," he replied non-committally."Isn't there a certain type of Dark Magic that could be of use to him?" inquired another student.Remus forced a laugh. "You are asking me questions that the finest experts in the Ministry of Magic have not been able to answer. He might have temporarily overpowered the spells protecting the castle without leaving a trace." He might have, but he did not."Do you agree with the way the Ministry of Magic has handled the situation?" asked Oliver Wood, the Gryffindor Quidditch captain."I don't believe in sending dementors to a school full of children and young adults who are attempting to learn their lessons, no."Percy suddenly grew rigid in his seat. "The Ministry would never do something that isn't safe!" he protested."I know that your father works for the Ministry, and I mean no offense, but dementors are by definition unsafe. No creature that dangerous has any business wandering among eleven-year-olds." Hypocrite. "You saw the damage they caused on the Hogwarts Express.""Not as much damage as Black would have caused.""Black is one human being and he was not there."Percy clearly disagreed. "The only thing the Ministry did wrong was allowing Black to run about Azkaban unrestrained. Perhaps they should have executed him while they had him." Several of his classmates nodded in concurrence. "The laws have to be enforced!""Execution might have been kinder than twelve years of torture," Remus suggested."Some people deserve to be tortured," said Percy with a coldness Remus would not have expected from him. But Percy was old enough to remember the last war, and Remus reminded himself that Percy had no reason to see Sirius as anything but the cause of his suffering.The only class more vehement in its protestations of Severus' teaching style was Harry's. Remus pulled Harry aside after dismissing the class, but Harry only repeated what Remus already knew. And then, without being prompted, almost as if he knew that he was talking to a friend, Harry demanded: "Why? Why do they affect me like that? Am I just--?"And Remus said everything that he had not said on the Hogwarts Express. That Harry's inability to cope with dementors had nothing to do with weakness. That his past was full of horrors most of his classmates could not contemplate. That Harry had nothing to feel ashamed of. Apparently Harry believed him, because he took his trust one step further. "When they get near me-- I can hear Voldemort murdering my mum." Remus' first instinct was to grasp Harry's shoulder, but he quickly thought better of it. Harry has no idea who you are, and even less idea what you are. You have no right to touch him. Remus rarely had physical contact with anyone unless he was being examined by a nurse. No one would voluntarily touch a werewolf, and he had no desire to force that position upon anyone-- least of all upon James' son. The conversation continued smoothly until Harry, like so many other students, brought up the name that was in the air. "Sirius Black escaped from them. He got away…"Remus might have been imagining the accusation in Harry's voice; but perhaps not. He dropped his briefcase and caught it again. I LET HIM GET AWAY, HARRY! I DID! Harry obviously did not hear Remus' unspoken message, because he promptly began to beg Remus to teach him the Patronus Charm. I'm the last person you want teaching you. But Remus acquiesced. It was difficult to resist James' double.The winter holidays allowed Remus to postpone Harry's plans for a private lesson. The full moon fell on Christmas Eve, and while Remus opted to spend most of Christmas day in his egregiously comfortable bed, he still heard the castle's newest bit of gossip."Remus?" Minerva's voice called from his fire."Yes, Minerva?""I'm sorry to bother you, but I must ask you a rather important question.""It's no bother," Remus replied curiously."Did you by any chance send Potter a Firebolt?""A Firebolt? One of those new racing brooms?""Correct.""No, I did not." To Remus' knowledge, the brooms cost more than he would make in a year at Hogwarts"Do you suspect that another of Harry's father's friends might anonymously send him a top-of-the-line racing broom?"Remus suppressed a shudder. Few things said "Sirius" better than an expensive broom. "Yes, I do.""We agree, then. Don't worry. It's been confiscated."In spite of this new indication that Sirius was alive and well and apparently shopping-- although probably not in canine form-- Remus fell back to sleep soon after speaking to Minerva."Hark, the Herald Angels shout, one more day 'til we get out!" a student Remus did not know sang in a terribly off-key voice.James grimaced. "I hope someone teaches him how to make Perfect Pitch Potion. Soon.""Very soon," Sirius added."Very very soon," James continued.Peter and Remus tuned out their friends' predictable routine. Peter held a book open in his hands, and they bent over it together as they walked. Remus promised himself that, should he ever become a professor, he would never hold an exam on the last day of class before a major holiday."1215 or 1512?" Remus asked frantically. He did not habitually wait until the last moment to study, but the end-of-the-term crunch had been particularly bad, and this unit of History of Magic was particularly dull. "1215," said Peter soothingly. "Relax. You're never like this before a test. People will start to think you're me."Remus laughed. "I wish. Since you seem to know the answers.""So will you if you calm down. And if all else fails, my parchment will be near the edge of my desk and I'll write clearly.""Thanks." Remus had no real intention of cheating-- it was an easy habit to get into and a hard habit to break, particularly when one was part of a group with great cheating potential-- but the offer reassured him."Is Moony done panicking?" asked James, waltzing easily between Peter and Remus. "I hope I didn't overhear anything about cheating. As a prefect--""--And leading candidate for Head Boy--" Sirius added."--I cannot condone such childish and potentially hurtful behavior.""Unless of course you have something to blackmail him with," Sirius completed. Remus wrinkled his brow in thought. "Would the fact that he and the leading candidate for Head Girl were out well past curfew last night be a good start?""An excellent start!" agreed Sirius."We were studying," growled James, his sense of humor suddenly decreased. "In Hogsmeade? Over butterbeer?" inquired Sirius."That's irrelevant.""What's wrong with studying with us?" "Studying with you is like watching you do a crossword puzzle. It just makes me feel stupid. Remus, obviously, didn't study. And Peter had detention last night. Finally, I am going to spend all of the holiday with you. Lily's going home." James' newfound scowl deepened."Did you tell her that you can't stand the thought of being away from her and you think you'll die if she doesn't change her mind and stay?""She wants to meet her sister's fiancé.""And compare him to you?""She says she and Petunia don't have the same taste.""That's a relief. I'd hate to think that there's more than one girl out there who's willing to date you.""Better hope Lily isn't listening," Peter broke in.Remus looked up the corridor. "No, she's studying. Like we should be.""Guess you didn't get much done last night after all, Prongs," snickered Sirius."Watch. We'll be the first two out of the room.""After you hand in blank rolls of parchment because you'd rather snog than pass."The banter slowed as they entered the classroom, and, true to his word, James was the first to complete the exam. Lily, however, obviously intended to check her work carefully, and when James stood outside the door and encouraged her to hurry, she waved him off.Sirius, Remus, and Peter, after exchanging nods, left the room as one. James was nowhere to be found, and he had taken the Marauder's Map and his Invisibility Cloak with him. They expected to find him in a sour mood when he finally arrived for dinner, having seen Lily off, but he was smiling and happy."Prongs? What have you been doing?" asked Sirius with a raised eyebrow."You remember that awful singing we were subjected to on the way to History of Magic?""Yes.""I decided that no one deserves to be subjected to that.""All right.""Except the Slytherins.""Goes without saying.""So the inevitable happened.""What have you done?""Done? Me?" James was the picture of innocence. He remained the picture of innocence when Dumbledore, accompanied by the Slytherin Head of House, stood before the students who had chosen to remain over the winter holiday. The number was fairly large; Lord Voldemort grew more powerful with each passing day and parents gained peace of mind from leaving their children in Albus Dumbledore's care. "I understand that many of you are full of end-of-term high spirits. I salute you. However, the ending of the term does not grant you permission to behave in a way that is disrespectful to your colleagues. There was an incident in the Slytherin Common Room this afternoon. I greatly appreciate music, but it is not acceptable to make music for the sole purpose of insulting your comrades. In these difficult times, it is more important than ever that we all work together. The perpetrator may confess himself or herself to me, or he or she will be found out through other means and punished more severely.""We already have our suspicions," the Slytherin Head of House added. "A limited number of students are capable of performing magic at this level, and a limited number of students were free this afternoon. Please remember that in addition to detention and loss of points, you may lose the right to attend a feast or a Hogsmeade weekend. You may lose your position on your Quidditch team. You may lose the right to wear a prefect's badge." Remus was certain that half of the eyes in the room were fixed on James. James did not blink."You may resume eating," Dumbledore announced. As Dumbledore sat down, however, several suits of armor marched into the Great Hall. They were singing. The singing was not unusual in and of itself, as they were often enchanted to sing Christmas carols, but the words were a surprise:"O come, all ye faithfulJoyful and triumphant,O come ye, O come ye to Slytherin;Come and behold them,Born to serve a Dark Lord:O come let us abhor themO come let us abhor themO come let us abhor themSnape's the worst!See how SlytherinsAll act mean and nastyTeasing the firsties who can't yet fight backWe too will thitherSpit in their direction:O come let us abhor themO come let us abhor themO come let us abhor themSnape's the worst!Lo! They know curses,Meant to murder children;Offer to duel with them and put them awayWe to the SlytherinsBring our favorite dungbombs:O come let us abhor themO come let us abhor themO come let us abhor themSnape's the worst!Slytherins are stupidDumb and also brainlessThey do not even know how to wash their hairWho would not hate themHating us so dearly?O come let us abhor themO come let us abhor themO come let us abhor themSnape's the worst!"Dumbledore at last raised his wand and silenced the suits of armor. Their jaws banged shut, and the hall was silent but for a few suppressed snickers. "Look at the Slytherins," Sirius muttered. Some of them looked angered, but others were smirking. Remus wondered if they truly did know curses meant to murder children."You might've gone a bit far," Remus murmured from the corner of his mouth."What d'you mean?" asked James."You have to confess," said Peter, sounding almost shrill. "No one but a Gryffindor would do that, and there aren't many in our year who could. The seventh-years, I think, were in class all day today.""Even if I'd done it, I wouldn't confess." James had gone slightly pale. "They'd never make me Head Boy if I did, and that would mean Lily would be spending half her time with someone else..""But--""Be quiet, Peter," interrupted Sirius. "It won't be a problem.""How can you say that?""I'll take care of it.""How?""Just eat." Sirius sounded vaguely annoyed. Under ordinary circumstances Remus would have expected Sirius to confess in James' place. However, Sirius had lately been threatened with expulsion as his pranks grew progressively wilder and less funny. He had obeyed most of the school rules recently, and had not lost a single point for Gryffindor in over a month. Such behavior from Sirius would once have been unthinkable. It was obvious that Sirius truly believed his place at Hogwarts was in jeopardy.When the meal had ended, Sirius walked back to the portrait of the Fat Lady with Remus, James, and Peter but suddenly turned from them as they gave the password."What?" asked James."See you later. I have a plan," was the only answer he received. James had no option but to join in Peter and Remus' complicated Exploding Snap-Wizard Chess tournament, which stretched on into the early morning hours as they waited for Sirius. "He's probably with some girl," James said hazily, but he did not sound as though he believed himself.At last, Sirius arrived, looking tired but smiling as usual. "Nothing to worry about," he told James. Collapsing into a chair, he added "Were you all waiting up for me? I'm touched."Peter and James looked at one another and then at Remus. Remus nodded. It was a well-known fact that Sirius did not like to yell at Remus because Remus never yelled back. "What happened, Sirius?" Remus asked calmly.Sirius cocked his head as if in consideration. "Well, a lot of Muggles subscribe to something called the Big Bang Theory. I personally think that more wizards would believe in it if they weren't so prejudiced against Muggles. In any case, once our solar system--""This is all very interesting, but would you mind skipping ahead to what happened to you, personally, tonight?""Yes, I would mind. I think that you should get everything in perspective.""I assure you that I have exceptional perspective aptitude." Sirius did not look convinced. "Did you go see Dumbledore?""Yes," Sirius answered. "Now, Dumbledore is well over a hundred years old and he could give you some perspective, I'm sure.""What did Dumbledore give you?""A night polishing trophies, and all day Christmas doing the same. Twenty-five from Gryffindor.""You confessed for James?" Remus asked, somewhat alarmed. Sirius had been lucky his punishment had not been worse."You confessed for me? What are you, mad?" James broke in."Just a bit," said Sirius agreeably. "They brought Binns in, and you know he doesn't even know our names. It was quite easy to convince him that I was the one who left the exam first and had enough time to do the crime. I convinced Dumbledore and McGonagall that I'm just a poor, confused child who grew up during a war and sometimes doesn't understand how to handle his feelings appropriately. No one tried to expel me. The Slytherin contingent wanted my spot on the Quidditch team, but Dumbledore flat-out refused. He didn't want to agree to the skipping the Christmas Feast thing, either, but I told him I didn't mind. I said it was Dickensian and I think he liked that.""You have to skip the feast?" Peter sounded horrified. The Christmas Feast was widely believed to be the best feast of the year. "They're not going to starve me. I get food sent to me; I just have to polish trophies during the feast itself."James shook his head. "The feast aside, your reputation can't take this. I'm going to tell him the truth." He rose to his feet, and Sirius, who had looked exhausted a moment before, jumped up as well. "No. That just makes me a liar. They won't take your prefect's badge, but they won't make you Head Boy, either. You want Lily to be Head Girl with Snape as Head Boy?""No, but I don't want you to--""Don't worry about me. No permanent damage." Sirius looked at James thoughtfully. "Why did you do it?""I don't even know. Just in a bad mood." He chuckled. "The song wasn't up to standard, was it?""You should have put in more about his hair," said Peter seriously. Soon afterwards, they headed for their dormitory, and spent the first few days of their holiday sleeping and searching for secret rooms.On Christmas, they awoke to piles of gifts but left them unopened. They had decided to put off their celebration until Sirius had served his punishment. Sirius went off to the trophy room without complaint. As the time for the feast approached, Remus, Peter, and James lurked near the entrance to the Great Hall as students and faculty paraded inside, dressed in their best robes. "It's not right," James mumbled. He would likely have said more had Professor McGonagall not passed them by and ordered them inside. "I don't want you three up to something," she said sternly."We aren't," they replied. James tried to angle himself so that his professor was looking at his prefect's badge."Then get inside."Remus shook his head. "I'm not hungry." He was the rare sixteen-year-old boy who could utter this phrase and be believed."Do you feel all right, Lupin?""Fine. Just not hungry." He watched as she internally calculated the phase of the moon and found that it had been new earlier that week."We didn't eat our breakfast until it was late, Professor," James jumped in. He forced his face into a mask of concern. "Want company, Remus?""Yes, let's go back to the Common Room," Peter jumped in, recognizing that James was in planning mode. "It wouldn't be the same without Sirius, anyway.""Very well, but no sneaking into the kitchens when you get hungry this evening," McGonagall warned them.They assured her that they would never consider doing any such thing."What's going on, Prongs?" asked Peter as soon as they were back inside Gryffindor Tower."Accio, Invisibility Cloak! Accio, Marauder's Map!" James ordered without answering. He handed the map to Peter and put the Cloak on himself. "You two go get all of our presents and I'll get the food.""You just told McGonagall you wouldn't--""I told her I wouldn't this evening. And I may not bother going to the kitchens, seeing as there's more set out in the Great Hall than anyone would miss." The portrait swung open before Peter could utter another word of protest. Remus grinned."You heard him, Wormtail. Let's go."Less than half an hour later, they burst through the door to the trophy room. Sirius, who had been concentrating on a row of multicolored plaques, looked up sharply. "What are you doing?""Seems pretty obvious to us," said James, who was still concealed by the Cloak. Sirius reached in the direction of his voice, and James' feet scuffled on the floor. "Watch it! You'll make me drop the turkey!"Sirius sniffed the air, looking very doglike. "You prat! You've actually got a--"James shrugged out of the Invisibility Cloak. It looked as if he had managed to steal most of the contents of the Great Hall. "Put down the trophies. Time for our feast."Sirius snatched half of the food from James. "Not that I'm objecting, but you're almost certainly going to get caught."James grinned wickedly. "I don't know why we didn't think of this before. Not even Flich is going to skip the Feast to supervise you. So we have as much time as the Feast takes.""And we can all get the trophies polished in one-quarter of the time," said Peter with a grin as he unceremoniously dumped a stack of Christmas presents on the floor. Remus followed suit, and James conjured a table cloth from thin air to cover the case on which he was about to deposit the rest of the food. Sirius raised an eyebrow.James shrugged. "I do this because I can." Then he smiled. "Happy Christmas.""Happy Christmas," the others repeated in turn."May you all be blessed with the best racing brooms Hogsmeade has to offer," Sirius added.Remus awoke without the slightest doubt that Minerva was right. Sirius was trying to get to Harry through the Firebolt.Perhaps he even saw the match. No one knows to look for a dog. With a pang of self-loathing, Remus righted himself and began to think of Harry's request. If I can't protect him by turning Sirius in, at least I can make his life with the dementors easier. I can't very well bring one into the castle to let him practice. But if he is correct, and he would see a dementor in a boggart… That was a potentially good idea.He spent the ensuing days combing the castle for a boggart, and was lucky enough to find one before his first meeting with Harry.The lesson itself progressed better than he could have hoped. Harry was powerfully magical and even more powerfully determined. He fought stubbornly and was knocked unconscious once, then twice. The second time, Remus had great difficulty in bringing his student around. "Harry! Harry . . . wake up . . . ."Harry came back to himself groggily. Remus could barely make out the boy's garbled words. "I heard my dad. That's the first time I've ever heard him-- he tried to take on Voldemort himself, to give my mum time to run for it…" Harry trailed off, crying unconsciously, but Remus hardly noticed. Of course James would have tried to let Lily run for it.Suddenly, Remus wished himself in Harry's place. Most importantly, he would then have been able to spare the thirteen-year-old the horror of reliving his parents' deaths. But secondly, Harry had heard James. The smallest echo of James would have been welcome even after so many years. "You heard James?"Harry had dried his tears and now looked directly at Remus. "Yeah… Why-- you didn't know my dad, did you?"In for a knut, in for a galleon. "I-- I did, as a matter of fact. We were friends at Hogwarts. Listen, Harry, perhaps we should leave it here for now. This charm is ridiculously advanced … I shouldn't have suggested putting you through this…" I'm not doing so well, and I can't hear James yelling or Lily screaming.Harry insisted, though, and proved himself even more stubborn than his father had been. On his very next try, he mustered the beginnings of a Patronus. And then, as Harry was leaving, he asked the dreaded question to end all dreaded questions. "If you knew my dad, you must have known Sirius Black as well?"Yes, he was my friend, too. I adored him. And I can't quite bring myself to hate him despite what he's doing to you. "What gives you that idea?" You've noticed that I've betrayed you? You know I know damn well how Sirius got inside the castle?"Nothing-- I mean, I just knew they were friends at Hogwarts, too…" HOW?"Yes, I knew him. Or I thought I did. You'd better be off, Harry, it's getting late."Harry left the room, obviously concerned that he had upset his tutor. Good. He won't ask again.He did not. The weekly lessons became a combination of hard work and casual conversations until one evening Remus found his way to the room in a state of shock. The Daily Prophet still rested inside his briefcase.Black KissesBy Helena Jackson, special to the Daily ProphetSirius Black. The name is second only to that of You-Know-Who in striking fear into the hearts of the wizarding population of Great Britain. Our streets have been patrolled by dementors ever since the infamous criminal escaped from the Fortress of Azkaban. However, Cornelius Fudge, the Minister of Magic, has insured that such a tragedy will never occur again. Earlier today, Minister Fudge signed a permit which will allow dementors coming in contact with Black to use their most deadly weapon: the Dementor's Kiss. When the Dementor's Kiss is applied, the recipient loses all mental and emotional functions as well as all sense of self. Further details will appear in the later edition of this journal.Remus did not care to read the later editions. In fact, he did not care to dwell on what he had just read, and so he slept-walk through the day and ignored the buzz of teachers and informed students eager to discuss this latest development in the Sirius Black Soap Opera. Harder to ignore was the clear revelation that he did not want Sirius to be given the Kiss. He had never been in favor of torture; a lifetime of lycanthropy had convinced him that he would not wish the worst fates which wizardry had devised on anyone.Furthermore, Sirius was not "anyone." The whole of Hogwarts was full of memories of Sirius, who had black hair and mischievous eyes and a constant grin and clever ideas and boundless compassion and ridiculous jokes and incredible intelligence and far too great a soul to be swallowed by any dementor Remus had yet met. Sirius without a soul was unequivocally wrong.You'd rather have a madman running about Hogwarts and trying to finish off the last Potter than see Sirius punished, would you, Lupin?His anger at the wizarding world that had condemned him to exile except at those moments when he was risking his life tracking a fugitive or subduing a violent monster had not been attractive, but it had not run deep. In many ways, Remus counted himself lucky. He had been born to parents who had attempted to cure his lycanthropy rather than abandon him as soon as they became aware of the accident. He had met James and Lily and Peter and even Sirius at school, and had had friends who knew of his predicament and reacted with compassion rather than hatred or fear. He had gained the trust of Albus Dumbledore, the most famous wizard in the world, and had been allowed inside the tight community of Hogwarts not once but twice. Seldom had he felt alone or universally disliked; even when his few confidantes were not near, they were somewhere, and that made all the difference.His guilt, which had begun to develop as soon as he had been freed from exile, had been a bit of a vicious cycle. He enjoyed being significant enough to have something to feel guilty about, and then he felt guilty about enjoying the guilt. The guilt was tempered by pain; reminders of his dead friends were everywhere, and memories he had glossed over for more than a decade tormented him in their full glory at every turn.But the realization that he would never, under any circumstances, hate Sirius was at once anger-inducing and guilt-inducing and damned confusing. Had he been forced to join in the debates about the validity of the Dementor's Kiss as a means of discipline, he would not have known what to say.Harry's lesson went well, as always, and two days later the fruits of his efforts were displayed. Several of the least savory members of Slytherin House disguised themselves as dementors and stepped onto the Quidditch pitch as Harry flew high above them in pursuit of the Snitch. Even from the stands, Remus heard Harry's cry of EXPECTO PATRONUM! The Patronus itself made him fall back in his seat.Prongs.How could he know?Subconscious memories of James?He almost is James all over again.And he may die like James all over again.All of these thoughts slipped from Remus' mind as he rushed to the field with the other supporters of Gryffindor. The students, and more than a few of the professors, were screaming, but Remus felt his way through the raucous band to Harry's side. "That was quite some Patronus," he said quietly.Harry, alight with happiness, turned to face him. "The dementors didn't affect me at all! I didn't feel a thing!"Remus was not certain whether he wanted to give Harry another moment of believing he had completely mastered the spell or whether he wanted to give the boy an opportunity to see his archrival caught red-handed. The latter idea won out. He drew Harry away from the wild crowd to the four struggling perpetrators. "You gave Mr. Malfoy quite a fright," he informed Harry. Minerva was busily telling off the guilty parties, and celebration surrounded the Gryffindors and their supporters until that night.Remus and the other professors were summoned by Dumbledore in the early hours of the morning and informed that Sirius had once again broken into the castle. This time, he had gotten into Harry's dormitory and has slashed the curtains hanging around Ron's bed. He was off by less than a wandlength.Remus now knew which tunnel to check, but once again the delay had been too long. Though he ran all the way to Hogsmeade casting spells ahead of him as he went, he found no sign of Sirius.And in an ugly part of his mind, he was glad.He had not looked forward to a weekend so shamelessly since his student days. When it came, most of the students went off to Hogsmeade, and Remus caught up on his grading until Severus' voice intruded on his sanctuary. "Lupin! I want a word!"Remus hastened to obey. In a few more days, he would further indebt himself to Severus with the arrival of the full moon. "You called, Severus?" he asked after clambering through the fire into Severus' office."I certainly did!" Severus was angry, and Harry was present. Severus thrust a well-worn, well-loved piece of parchment in front of Remus.Messrs. Moony, Wormtail, Padfoot, and Prongs greeted Remus from the parchment's surface. Confused by the near-appearances of a childhood friend thought lost forever Remus might have been, but now he had no doubts. Under no circumstances was the Marauder's Map going to remain in Severus' possession. He shot Harry a quick glare to ensure that the boy would remain silent.When Ron burst in to supply Harry with a none-too-plausible excuse for having a bag of jokes, Remus rushed both boys and the Map outside into the corridor. He caught their attention by informing them that he knew their precious piece of parchment was a map, and gave Harry a terse lecture ending with the reminder that James and Lily had not died so their son could get himself killed for a bag of jokes. He too weak, he reflected to himself, to keep Sirius from Harry; but at least he could keep Harry from Sirius.Alone in his office once more, he unfolded the Map and stared at it. Mr. Moony presents his compliments to Professor Snape and begs him to keep his abnormally large nose out of other people's business. Mr. Prongs agrees with Mr. Moony and would like to add that Professor Snape is an ugly git. Mr. Padfoot would like to register his astonishment that an idiot like that ever became a professor. Mr. Wormtail bids Professor Snape good day, and advises him to wash his hair, the slimeball."Mischief managed," he informed the Map with a tap of his wand. The words vanished, and the Map was hastily hidden in a desk. Remus was not ready to hear from James or Peter just yet, and he certainly did not want to hear from Sirius. The enchanted map would not explain why Sirius had betrayed everyone about whom he had ever claimed to care. How could the boy who wrote this map grow into the man who did the unthinkable? Perhaps he didn't… perhaps it was a mistake… Remus rolled his eyes at himself. He had not attempted to justify Sirius' behavior since the day the Ministry of Magic had told him of the charges to be brought against Sirius.It would be better for Sirius if he was guilty, Remus reflected. Imagine being imprisoned for twelve years for something you didn't do.The rhythm of Hogwarts returned. The full moon rose and set. Classes were taught and essays were graded. Severus made snide remarks in Remus' direction. Harry came to Remus for weekly anti-dementor lessons. Lily and James were never again mentioned; Harry stuck to more neutral subjects such as Ron and Hermione's feud. Ron was apparently convinced that Hermione's cat had eaten his rat.The lessons ended a few weeks before Gryffindor's final Quidditch match. Gryffindor emerged victorious and took the Quidditch Cup. At last, there were final exams to be given and a final dose of Wolfsbane to be taken.I may miss Severus this summer, Remus admitted to himself. That's a first.Another first-- at least for recent times-- was his survival of the school year. The Defense Against the Dark Arts position may have been cursed, but Remus had experience with curses. Severus, Harry, Sirius, and assorted ghosts were nothing compared to his monthly transformations. Remus might have neglected to give Dumbledore some highly relevant information, but Harry was safe nonetheless. The trial was over.He was aware that others among the Hogwarts population had no reason to be happy. Hagrid's beloved hippogriff was set to be executed, and Remus knew that kind-hearted Harry was likely to sneak out of the castle to visit his friend.If only I had a way to know when Harry leaves.Remus smirked to himself.Wait. I do.The Map was not so disconcerting when it had a purpose to serve. "I solemnly swear I am up to no good," he told it. Failing to mention Sirius' alter-ego for an entire year certainly qualified as "no good." It was, in fact, about as far from good as Remus had ever been.And then, despite the fact that Severus had not yet delivered his potion, and despite the fact that the full moon was set to rise imminently, and despite the fact that Dumbledore should have been informed of this new development, and despite the fact that he was far too involved in the situation at hand to be objective, he found himself flying along the passageway to the Shrieking Shack.The labeled dot on the Map was burned into his eyelids.The dot was labeled "Sirius Black."This is not an auspicious ending to the year…





--------




June 1994-June 1995Padfoot glared into the darkness.
Wormtail. He had had only one thought for as long as he could
remember, and that was the thought of catching the rat and disposing
of it as it deserved. Wormtail. Wormtail Wormtail Wormtail
Wormtail Wormtail Wormtail Wormtail Wormtail Wormtail Wormtail.The name beat out an ugly tattoo on his
blood. Wormtail. It pulsed with each heartbeat and sounded
with each breath. Wormtail.The time was near and Padfoot knew it.
Wormtail was in the groundskeeper's residence, and Wormtail
knew that Padfoot knew.Padfoot would not be tricked.He had all the time in the world. He
could wait. Time lost meaning in the place from which he had come.For something with no meaning,
however, time was an obsession. What was the year? And how old did
that make-- James' son? He remembered James because he saw him,
dead, dying, bleeding, accusing every day. Lately, though, he had had
days in which he could not remember the given name of James' son.
It made sense. Azkaban called for the abandonment of all hope, and a
child was the embodiment of hope. A child meant that James would not
truly die, not for many, many years.How many years had it been?
Sometimes he could keep track of the months by the full moon. The
full moon was something he would never forget, not as long as he knew
who he was and what he could do. Full moons meant wrestling with
werewolves and wrestling with werewolves meant becoming a dog.
Becoming a dog meant a temporary reprieve from the guilt and even the
cold.It was easier to keep track of the
years. Each time the Minister of Magic inspected the prison, that was
a year. The visits broke the monotony. It was interesting to see real
human beings rather than dementors. It was interesting to see how
they shook and shivered even though the dementors were kept out of
their ways as they inspected their precious torture chambers. It was
interesting to realize that Cornelius Fudge, and not Barty Crouch,
had been given the job as Minister of Magic; it was nice to see that
the public did not support sending your own son to Azkaban to die.
Sirius liked to think that it was the secret, unmarked death of the
younger Crouch that had somehow lost his father his lifelong goal.Unfortunately, visits from the
Minister of Magic required human form, and so Sirius found himself
lying boredly in his cell. It was not difficult to tell when the
Minister was to arrive. On the day before a visit, magical mops and
brooms flooded the corridors of Azkaban and attempted to make the
edifice look as if it were not full of prisoners entirely abandoned
to the dubious mercy of the dementors. In some cases, cells were
cleaned as well and even the odd prisoner found himself hosed down
with icy water.As Sirius had his wits about him, he
was ignored in such hasty clean-up operations. He looked just as the
model Azkaban prisoner should with the exception of the fact that he
did not rock back and forth in the corner of his cell, wrists locked
around knees. He rarely cried. He had not screamed for years. Though
his hair was matted and his person filthy-- why attempt to have
things otherwise when no one saw you?-- he was healthy, and his eyes
were relatively bright. He was clearly aware of his surroundings. Come to think of it, he was not such
a model prisoner. Though he had grown more forgetful (what was the
boy's name?) over the years, he showed few signs of mental decay.
He knew his name. He knew where he was, and why.Fudge would find him quite
disturbing.Sirius did not remember that, years
ago, he would have thought it great fun to disturb Fudge. Great fun
had vanished long ago; fun was happiness, and happiness called the
dementors, and one never deliberately called the dementors.When Fudge's footsteps, and the
footsteps of his escorts, at last sounded down the corridor, Sirius
sat up slightly. Fudge peered into the cell directly across from
Sirius. The man inside had been there for five years--had murdered a
Hit Wizard-- and was babbling incoherently to himself. He shrieked in
his sleep on occasion but was otherwise of no interest to Sirius. He
never looked up, though, and was therefore never able to see the
large black dog that often took Sirius' place. However, it was
unlikely that he would be believed if he did claim that Sirius had
such a "pet."Fudge turned abruptly from the
moaning, gibbering lump of flesh. "No less than he deserved," he
said firmly. "And here we have… Sirius Black.""That's correct," said Sirius.Fudge stared at him. "What did you
say?""I said you were correct. I'm
Sirius Black. I see you've done your homework."Fudge whirled on his escorts as if
Sirius were no longer present. "Do they often speak rationally?
Have any of the others seemed lucid to you?" The junior ministers
only shook their heads dumbly."Not usually," Sirius
interrupted. "You could have gotten a good conversation out of the
Lestranges a few years ago, but they're quiet now.""Oh.""Just trying to be helpful. I know
you'd like to make a thorough inspection and I know you're
pressed for time. Things going well at the Ministry?""Well enough." Fudge gestured at
his companions. "Let's go.""Wait!" Sirius' eyes lit on
the copy of the Daily Prophet under Fudge's arm. "Are you done
with that newspaper?"Nervously, Fudge looked at the paper
as if he had never seen it before. "Can't do any harm, can it?"
Sirius did not respond, and Fudge slowly pushed the paper through the
bars, recoiling when Sirius grasped it in his own hand. "Easy.""Thank you. It's been a long
time since I've done the crossword."Fudge walked off as if in a haze and
Sirius celebrated his new possession. He glanced down at the date.
July, 1993. That meant . . . ninety-three minus eighty . . . the baby
had been born in July . . . thirteen . . . almost twelve years in
prison and thirteen since he had become a godfather. It was easier to
do math when the dementors had settled down for Fudge's sake. If
the dementors were present, mental calculations involved a monotonous
train of "three I am innocent minus I am innocent zero I am
innocent is three I am innocent and nine I am innocent minus I am
innocent eight I am innocent is one I am innocent making thirteen.
Almost thirteen, but still a baby in Sirius' mind.He casually opened the paper and
almost immediately dropped it. There, emblazoned on the parchment,
was a photograph of nine smiling, waving wizards and witches. Sirius'
attention was drawn not to them but to the rat perched on the
youngest(?) boy's shoulder. He looked familiar.He had a missing toe.And Sirius knew bloody well how that
toe had gotten to be missing. He looked at the caption that
matched the photograph: "The Weasley family will be spending a
month in Egypt, returning for the start of the new school year at
Hogwarts, which five of the Weasley children currently attend."Wormtail was going to Hogwarts.Wormtail would be at Hogwarts with
HARRY! HARRY! Sirius paced furiously about his
cell until he fell asleep on his feet. Because the dementors could
not feed off of fury, Sirius did not notice their return. He awoke
full of ideas.It was simple. He knew that now. He
had never applied himself to escaping before because the danger
Wormtail presented to Harry had not been foremost in his mind. The
dementors could not see, and they could not truly sense his canine
form. He was thin enough to slip between the bars of his cell… it
could work! Carefully, doing his best to make no noise, he left the
room that had been his home for twelve years without a backward
glance.Padfoot was glad that it was summer.
His coat was thick, but the water that needed to be swum across was
too cold even so.The one person in the world who
remembered him and might hear him out was Remus. It would be
difficult to find Remus; but luckily, the back dog was inconspicuous,
and when a Gringotts record book, complete with current addresses,
passed his way, he had no trouble finding his much desired
information.The travel was long and hard, but
Padfoot knew Moony and could find him-- and find him he did, in a
cottage on the outskirts of a wizarding village. He transformed. "Remus!"Remus turned slowly, clearly
recognizing his old friend's voice. "Sirius." He raised his
wand."No, no, Remus, listen first! We--
we switched Secret-Keepers. Wormtail-- Wormtail was the one who
betrayed them and served the Dark Lord and blew up the street and
framed me and now he's after Harry and he can get to him--""Be quiet, Sirius," Remus
interrupted in an icy voice. "That is the single stupidest story I
have ever heard. If you're going to lie to me, you could at least
have a bit of respect for my intelligence.""NO!" Sirius reached for the
newspaper with the photograph, but he seemed to have lost it. "I--
I--""Even if I believed you, you
disgusting excuse for an excuse for a human being, I would still kill
you. Changed Secret-Keepers? Didn't tell me? Didn't trust me?
Changed to someone who betrayed them? Means you as good as killed
them. And now I'll kill you. Goodbye, Sirius.""NO! NO! KILL ME, FINE, I'LL
DIE, BUT YOU HAVE TO LOOK OUT FOR HARRY! PETTIGREW! HE'S AT
HOGWARTS! HE'S AT--""AVADA KEDAVRA! I WON'T MISS
YOU, SIRIUS! NO ONE EVER DID!"Sirius awoke again and slapped
himself across the face to make certain that he was truly awake this
time. He was.His real escape went much as his
dreamed escape had. He was unable to slip through the bars, but when
the door was opened to allow the delivery of food, he moved easily
past the dementor. He decided it best, though, to forget about Remus.
It was Wormtail and Harry who were important.And so, after a quick detour to the
house in which Harry had spent his formative years, Sirius traveled
to the Forbidden Forest. He emerged only to watch Quidditch matches--
priorities, after all-- and to rummage for supplies. His most useful
acquisition turned out to be a Muggle pen, which was easier to
transport than its wizarding equivalent. The pen allowed him to send
a note with a most impressively magical cat to the shop in Hogsmeade
which sold broomsticks. A new broomstick for my godson, please, the
most impressive one you've got-- seeing as the last one hit the
Whomping Willow. A Firebolt, a Firebolt, who wouldn't want a
Firebolt?Twice he broke into the castle, and
twice he failed to capture Wormtail. Still failing James after so
many years. The cat said that Wormtail had faked his death and framed
it-- and Sirius felt a strong kinship for the animal.But he was secure in the knowledge
that Wormtail would pay. And then there was a hideous,
long-awaited squeaking. Wormtail. Wormtail's blood. Now!
Padfoot rapidly closed the distance between them. A heavy object had
thrown itself atop Wormtail, and Padfoot did not care. If the thing--
the boy-- thought he could protect the rat, he was sadly mistaken. 
Another figure, vaguely familiar, rose in his path, and he barreled
over it, barely feeling it. Wormtail was near. Wormtail! The
rat's protector was hollering, and they drew nearer and nearer the
Whomping Willow.Just in time, Padfoot clamped his jaws
around the boy's wrist and dragged him into the depths of the tree.
He did not bother to poke the knot at the tree's base, as he once
would have done. Pain was meaningless to him now, and he had no
intention of delaying and losing sight of his prey. For a moment,
something held him back, but then there was loud, satisfying crack
and he was running, running, running down the tunnel. No one would
find them here and the deed would be done.He dragged his prey up the stairs and
then transformed. He needed to have some final words with Wormtail.
In human form, it became more obvious that the boy-- Weasley-- had
broken his leg during the rush through the tunnel. Damn! The snap…
But Weasley was a magical child and he would heal.Sirius gathered the injured boy into
his arms. Weasley's mouth had opened, but at first he did not
speak. The silence did not last long. "YOU! YOU'RE AN ANIMAGUS!
SIRIUS BLACK! GET OFF OF ME!""I'm not going to hurt you,"
Sirius said in a raspy voice even as he wrenched the wand from the
boy's hand and threw it across the room."GET AWAY!""I'm just going to put you on the
bed. Your leg--" Sirius placed Weasley on the bed as gently as he
could."STAY AWAY!" The boy, struggling
against Sirius, lost his balance and slipped from the bed. He landed
hard on his wounded leg and was temporarily silenced by pain.The great cat leapt into the room and
landed on the bed. The other two can't be far behind. It's
what James would have done. For, partially freed from his
blood-lust, Sirius had realized that one of Weasley's escorts had
been none other than Harry. It made sense. They shared a dormitory,
after all.Sirius collected the wand and then slid
into the shadows near the half-open door to await their arrival. It
came."Ron-- are you okay?" cried the
girl."Where's the dog?" added Harry."Not a dog," Weasley-- Ron--
moaned. "Harry, it's a trap--""What--" All three were well inside
the room, and Sirius stood on his toes, ready to act."He's the dog. He's an Animagus…"Sirius threw the door shut and stepped
out of the shadows. "Expelliarmus!" he cried. He had waited for
this moment for more than twelve years. I'm in control,
Wormtail. Every wand in the room in my hand. Harry right here for the
explanation. Harry."I thought you'd come and help your
friend. Your father would have done the same for me. Brave of you,
not to run for a teacher. I'm grateful… it will make everything
much easier…"Any illusions Sirius might have
harbored about Harry's somehow remembering long-ago days of playing
with his godfather vanished as Harry started forward, a look of pure
loathing on his face. It was the same expression of hatred that
James' face always wore in Sirius' dreams. Ron and the girl,
though, pulled Harry back, and Harry did not right away get the
chance to tell Sirius what Sirius already knew: that he had killed
Lily and James."If you want to kill Harry, you'll
have to kill us, too!" Ron exploded. Through his hate, Sirius felt
something akin to amazement. Standing on that leg again? He
reminds me of me… but they didn't have to kill me to kill James,
did they?"Lie down," he told Ron, although
he did not truly expect Ron to obey. "You will damage that leg even
more.""Did you hear me? You'll have to
kill all three of us!"Killing. Wormtail. Time
was running short. "There will be only one murder here tonight."
He smiled, and the smile made his face ache. He hardly cared."Why's that?" Harry was
struggling against his friends. "Didn't care last time, did you?
Didn't mind slaughtering all those Muggles to get at Pettigrew!
What's the matter, gone soft in Azkaban?" The girl was begging
him to be quiet, but Harry was unmoved. "HE KILLED MY MUM AND DAD!"
There it is. About time you said it. Harry, like James, was exceedingly
stubborn. He wrenched himself away from his restraints. Wandless
though he was, he ran forward toward Sirius. Sirius raised the wands,
but not quickly enough, and suddenly a bundle of punching, screaming,
clawing thirteen-year-old had thrown itself onto him. He was
underweight and he had not braced himself properly, and so Harry was
able to knock him backwards. Sirius could do little but hold tight to
the wands until he pulled his left hand free and closed his fingers
about Harry's throat. "No," he hissed. "I've waited too
long."A sudden kick caused him to lose
control of Harry, and when hands clawed at the wands he loosened his
grip for just a fraction of a second-- and that was enough. The wands
rolled free, and Harry, whose friends were still clutching madly at
Sirius, scrambled after them. "NO YOU DON'T!" he yelled. "GET
OUT OF THE WAY!"Harry's command was followed so that
Sirius was left lying alone against the far wall. Harry drew his
wand. "Going to kill me, Harry?" Sirius whispered."You killed my parents." That was
true enough."I don't deny it. But if you knew
the whole story.""The whole story? You sold them to
Voldemort. That's all I need to know."Sirius had always been in favor of
acting first and asking questions later, but if Harry followed suit,
the results would be his undoing. "You've got to listen to me,"
he begged. "You'll regret it if you don't. You don't
understand.""I understand a lot better than you
think. You never heard her, did you? My mum… trying to stop
Voldemort killing me… and you did that … you did it …"Harry had no intention of changing his
mind, it seemed. Frantically, Sirius tried to find the words that
would make Harry wait until he had seen Wormtail, and then, if he
still wanted to kill Sirius, Sirius had no real reason to live… A
heavy weight fell on Sirius' chest. It was the cat. "Get off,"
he told it. There was no use in ending the life of one of the most
magical creatures he had ever come across.Harry you have to listen the boy has
a rat that's an Animangus Harry I would never hurt you I never
meant to hurt you I want to protect you just let me do it just this
one time let me kill the rat and you'll do with me as you wish
Harry just let me Wormtail Wormtail Wormtail has to die you're in
danger why didn't I start thinking before he's hesitating I had
enough time if I'd started then but now it's too late Wormtail
Prongs Harry live you have to live but you have to let me stop him
tell Dumbledore tell Dumbledore stop him stop him before he does it
again why can't I talk why can't I breathe Merlin this is it by
Harry's wand I deserve it but I have to tell him and I can't why
can't I tell him please why why I have to speak stop Wormtail too
long too long--And there were footsteps.That's Remus I know Remus Remus
will fix everything Remus will be all right just another full moon
we'll become Animagi a werewolf a werewolf a werewolf in the bed
next to mine can you believe it and they tell us the Forbidden Forest
safe in the Forbidden Forrest I'll wait and I'll find Wormtail
I'll go back to the Forest I can't I'm here James Harry the
wand the rat--"WE'RE UP HERE! WE'RE UP HERE--
SIRIUS BLACK-- QUICK!"The footsteps are real! Sirius
started. It couldn't truly be Remus, but if the distraction lasted
long enough he would be able to get out of the house. Surely he knew
it better than anyone else.That's it. Azkaban didn't snap
me but something else obviously has. Sirius blinked and shook his
head, but no matter how he squinted, the new arrival looked like
Remus Lupin."Expeliarmus!" That was Remus'
voice. And Remus was looking him in the eye. "Where is he, Sirius?"
How can he know? He doesn't mean-- but he can see everyone
else-- Not trusting himself to speak, Sirius pointed at the other
boy. Weasley. Ron? He'd known … he couldn't recall … memory
like a sieve sometimes … "But then … Why hasn't he shown
himself before now?" Remus' eyes widened. "Unless he was the
one … unless you switched … without telling me?" Thank
Merlin coherency is optional with him! Slowly, Sirius nodded.As if in a dream, he saw Remus lower
his wand and cross the floor. Believe me don't hurt me don't
kick me forgive me don't touch me don't-- Remus took Sirius'
hand in his own. Warm. Strong. Safe. Remus' touch did not
feel like Harry's. It felt good, and it had been a long,
long time since Sirius had felt good. Confusedly, he found
himself on his feet. He had barely had time to register that Remus
must have pulled him up when he felt himself pressed against the
other man's body. Robes were in contact with robes and skin was in
contact with skin. For seconds that felt like hours he leaned against
his solid support, surprised and unable to stand on his own. He was
just recalling that the classic response to a hug involved hugging
back when a shrill scream pierced the air."I DON'T BELIEVE IT!" It was the
girl. Remus let go of Sirius, and while Sirius had not entirely
understood the sensations that the hug had carried, he now felt
utterly bereft. He decided that he hated the girl. "YOU-- YOU-- YOU
AND HIM!" Her screeching would not have been out of place in
Azkaban. Perhaps she was part banshee."Hermione." Remus' voice was
different. Remus was composed. "Hermione, calm down.""I DIDN'T TELL ANYONE! I'VE BEEN
COVERING UP FOR YOU!""HERMIONE, LISTEN TO ME, PLEASE!"
Now Remus was yelling as well. "I CAN EXPLAIN--"And Harry broke in. "I TRUSTED YOU,
AND ALL THIS TIME YOU'VE BEEN HIS FRIEND!""You're wrong. I haven't been
Sirius' friend, but I am now-- Let me explain …""NO!" Hermione the Azkaban Banshee
was shrieking again. "Harry, don't trust him, he's been helping
Black get into the castle, he wants you dead too-- he's a
werewolf!" Sirius stared at Remus. Unless he had changed greatly
since their school days … how could this girl have seen through
him? Would he lie? Sirius wanted to say something to protect Remus,
but words still refused to come."Not at all up to your usual
standard, Hermione. Only one out of three, I'm afraid. I have not
been helping Sirius get into the castle and I certainly don't want
Harry dead." Remus shivered, and Sirius knew that he was about to
tell the truth. "But I won't deny that I am a werewolf."The children reacted as if in shock,
and the boy with the broken leg whimpered in pain. Remus made a move
as if to help him, but the boy pulled back. "Get away from me,
werewolf!" I don't like him, either. Harry needs some new
friends. Boy probably knows he's harboring Wormtai … Remus
was asking Hermione how she'd known, and though Sirius had wondered
the same thing himself, he suddenly lost the ability to follow the
conversation. The words flowed over him, meaningless as the thousands
upon thousands of screams of maddened prisoners.Wormtail have to get to Wormtail
Remus help me help me please please I'm sorry Remus Wormtail he's
here don't know what to do have to stop him make them stop stop
ignoring me I'm here I'm here I'm not mad don't put me in
there I'm innocent I'm Sirius Black and I'm innocent Harry I'm
sorry I just want to help you Harry please forgive me please please
trust me trust him he's right he'll fix it can't think anymore"HE WAS WRONG!" Harry pointed
accusingly at Sirius once again. "YOU'VE BEEN HELPING HIM ALL THE
TIME!"No, Harry. I wouldn't hurt you. I
wouldn't hurt Remus. I wouldn't hurt your parents.But I did.Sirius had been shaking since before
Remus' arrival, and now the tremors worsened. If he could just make
it to the bed, to the bed, one step, two, three, four. There. He
buried his face in his hands and tried to will himself away from the
place, from the shouting, from the noise. He half-understood Remus'
explanations of Marauder's Map and Invisibility Cloak. Don't
forget what's important.He did not. "Do you think I could
have a look at the rat?""What?" asked the bigoted boy.
"What's Scabbers got to do with it?""Everything. Could I see him,
please?"And the bigoted boy pulled Wormtail
from his robes. Sirius felt blood pound in his ears and saliva pool
in his mouth. It was here."What?" the boy repeated. "What's
my rat got to do with anything?"Suddenly, Sirius again recalled how to
form words. "That's not a rat.""What d'you mean-- of course he's
a rat--""No, he's not," Remus took over.
"He's a wizard.""An Animagus," Sirius completed.
"By the name of Peter Pettigrew."There was a pause before the Bigot
asserted that Sirius and Remus were insane and the Banshee proclaimed
the entire situation ridiculous.Harry, for his part, was pointing at
Sirius again. "Peter Pettigrew's dead! He killed him twelve
years ago!"Twelve years of rage made Sirius
entirely forget his difficulties in speaking. Suddenly, his feelings
were quite easily verbalized. "I meant to, but little Peter got the
better of me. Not this time, though!" With new strength, he lunged
across the bed, straining toward the rat. He was inches away, and
then he felt strong arms restraining him. He had decided that he had
enjoyed the hug. This, however, he did not appreciate in the
slightest."Sirius, no! WAIT! You can't just
do it like that-- they need to understand-- we've got to explain--""We can explain afterwards!" Sirius
twisted in Remus' grip. Damn the weight he had lost in Azkaban and
on the run! He had never been able to out-wrestle Remus when he
didn't out-weigh him."They've got a right to know
everything! Ron's kept him as a pet! There are parts of it even I
don't understand! And Harry-- you owe Harry the truth, Sirius!"Damn. Remus would know exactly what
to say. Sirius stopped moving but kept his gaze fixed on the rat.
"All right," he agreed begrudgingly. "Tell them whatever you
like. But make it quick, Remus. I want to commit the murder I was
imprisoned for." He then grew silent. He enjoyed listening to
Remus' voice; it had been too long absent. Nonetheless, Remus was
trying his patience. "Hurry up, Remus!" he snarled, but Remus put
him off. Remus was in perfect control. And he had bloody well better
stay in control of the rat, or Sirius… well, he did not know what
he would do. But Remus would be sorry. Though not as sorry as
Wormtail.At long last, Remus ended his tale. "…
So in a way, Snape's been right about me all along."In spite of his best attempts to glare
at the rat, Sirius' head snapped up. "Snape? What's Snape got
to do with it?"Remus did not look especially happy.
"He's here, Sirius. He's teaching here as well." Remus turned
to Harry, the Bigot, and the Banshee. "Professor Snape" Sirius
cringed at the title "was at school with us. He fought very hard
against my appointment to the Defense Against the Dark Arts job. He
has been telling Dumbledore all year that I am not to be trusted. He
has his reasons … you see, Sirius here played a trick on him which
nearly killed him, a trick which involved me--"Way to make the git sound human,
Remus, Sirius thought derisively. The news of Snape-- Snape--
being allowed to teach at Hogwarts-- Hogwarts-- did not sink
in easily. Astonishing. Absolutely astonishing. "It served
him right," Sirius reminded Remus. "Sneaking around, trying to
find out what we were up to… hoping he could get us expelled …""Severus was very interested in where
I went every month." Because he was a slimy, nosy git. "We
were in the same year, you know, and we-- er-- didn't like each
other very much." Understate often? "He especially
disliked James." James. The rat! Hurry up, Moony! "Jealous,
I think." With good reason, I'll admit. "Snape had seen
me" Spy! "Sirius thought it would be-- er-- amusing, to
tell Snape that all he had to do was prod the knot on the trunk with
a long stick, and he'd be able to get in after me. Well, of course,
Snape tried it" His own fault, all of it! "if he'd got
as far as this house, he'd have met a fully grown werewolf." Why
would anyone think that's a bad thing? "Your father, who'd
heard what Sirius had done, went after Snape and pulled him back, at
great risk to his life. Snape glimpsed me, though, at the end of the
tunnel. He was forbidden by Dumbledore to tell anybody, but from that
time on, he knew what I was…""So that's why Snape didn't like
you," asked Harry, finally calmed down, "Because he thought you
were in on the joke?""That's right." Snape!
Sirius jumped to his feet. Snape was there, and he had an
Invisibility Cloak, probably James' Invisibility Cloak. How dare
he put his dirty hands on it? Twenty years had passed and Snape
still had nothing better to do than lurk about after Sirius and
Remus."I found this at the base of the
Whomping Willow," Snape gloated as he threw away the Cloak. "You've
been wondering, perhaps, how I knew you were here? I've just been
to your office, Lupin. You forgot to take your potion tonight."
What? "And lucky I did. Lucky for me, I mean." Who else
have you EVER cared about? "Lying on your desk was a certain
map." Not… "One glance at it told me all I needed to
know. I saw you running along this passageway and out of sight.""Severus--""I've told the headmaster again and
again that you're helping your old friend Black into the castle,
Lupin." I'll bet you have. "Not even I dreamed you would
have the nerve to use this old place as your hideout--""Severus, you're making a mistake."
As always. Sirius wondered why Remus was bothering to explain.
Snape was not overly likely to listen, was he? "Sirius is not here
to kill Harry--"Snape refused to let Remus finish. "Two
more for Azkaban tonight! I shall be interested to see how Dumbledore
takes this… He was quite convinced you were harmless, you know,
Lupin, a tame werewolf--""You fool," said Remus softly and
Sirius inwardly rejoiced that his old friend was getting to the
point. "Is a schoolboy grudge worth putting an innocent man back in
Azkaban?"Remus had always been quick, and a
talented duelist, but he was not prepared when Snape set forth a
binding curse. Remus fell to the floor, and Sirius rushed forward
PROTECT REMUS!, but Snape had already directed his wand at
Sirius. "Give me a reason. Give me a reason to do it, and I swear I
will." Since when has Snape needed a reason? Sirius could do
nothing while a wand covered his heart.Hermione stepped toward her professor.
"Professor Snape-- it-- it wouldn't hurt to hear what they've
got to say, would it?"Snape rounded on the child as if she
had just suggested that he smile, or wash his hair. "Miss Granger,
you are already facing suspension from this school. You, Potter, and
Weasley are out-of-bounds in the company of a convicted murderer and
a werewolf. For once in your life, hold your tongue!""But-- if there was a mistake."
Hermione was not to be dissuaded. Sirius changed his mind. He liked
Hermione. He liked her a lot. If he survived the night, he might tell
her as much."KEEP QUIET, YOU STUPID GIRL! DON'T
TALK ABOUT WHAT YOU DON'T UNDERSTAND!" Hermione was suitably
quieted, and Snape turned back to Sirius. "Vengeance is very sweet.
How I hoped I would be the one to catch you…"Sirius sneered. "The joke's on you
again, Severus. As long as that boy brings his rat up to the castle,
I'll come quietly.""Up to the castle?" Snape did not
look disheartened. "I don't think we need to go that far. All I
have to do is call the dementors once we get out of the Willow.
They'll be very pleased to see you, Black… pleased enough to give
you a little kiss, I daresay…"Sirius felt himself pale. All else
having failed, he searched for a last resort. Begging Severus Snape.
"You-- you've got to hear me out. The rat-- look at the rat--"Snape did not react. He's mad.
More mad than I am. This can't be done safely… But Snape did
not know the grounds or the Shack the way Sirius did, and while Ron
was indisposed, Harry and Hermione would surely react if Sirius got
the upper hand… maybe even on the stairs… Sirius planned as Snape
ranted at Harry. Is he even aware that Harry isn't James?And then, as if they shared a
telepathic connection, Harry, Ron, and Hermione raised their wands.
"EXPELIARMUS!" Snape slammed backwards into the wall.An unconscious Snape had always been
Sirius' favorite sort of Snape, but he hardly needed
thirteen-year-olds to fight his battles for him. Harry was to some
degree at Snape's mercy. "You shouldn't have done that," he
told Harry. "You should have left him to me." Freedom, however,
was freedom, and Sirius knelt beside Remus. His thin fingers fumbled
for a moment about the ropes that bound his friend."Thank you, Harry," said Remus when
Sirius had released him."I'm not saying I believe you,"
said Harry uncertainly."Then it's time we offered you some
proof. You, boy-- give me Peter, please. Now.""Come off it," said the Troublesome
Bigot. "Are you trying to say he broke out of Azkaban just to get
his hands on Scabbers? I mean… Okay, say Pettigrew could turn into
a rat. There are millions of rats. How's he supposed to know which
one he's after if he was locked up in Azkaban?"Sirius opened his mouth to suggest that
they put a binding curse on Ron, just temporarily, but Remus looked
thoughtful and repeated the question. In response, Sirius removed the
crumpled photograph from his robes. "How did you get this?" Remus
demanded."Fudge. When he came to inspect
Azkaban last year, he gave me this paper. And there was Peter, on the
front page…" Haltingly, Sirius explained some of the events that
had brought him to the Shrieking Shack. Peter's wand… his finger…
the cat… fake deaths… It was not as hard as he had thought it
might be, not with Snape out of the way and Remus there to guide his
words…And then Harry yelled. "AND WHY DID
HE FAKE HIS DEATH? BECAUSE HE KNEW YOU WERE ABOUT TO KILL HIM LIKE
YOU KILLED MY PARENTS!""No," Remus said, trying to
explain, but Harry was having none of it."AND NOW YOU'VE COME TO FINISH HIM
OFF!""Yes," Sirius agreed. "I have.""THEN I SHOULD HAVE LET SNAPE TAKE
YOU!" How can he not understand? Harry… "THAT'S NOT
TRUE! HE WAS THEIR SECRET-KEEPER! HE SAID SO BEFORE YOU TURNED UP! HE
SAID HE KILLED THEM!"He's right about that. Sirius
shook his head, and tears filled his eyes. "Harry… I as good as
killed them. I persuaded Lily and James to change to Peter at the
last moment, persuaded them to use him as Secret-Keeper instead of
me… I'm to blame, I know it… The night they died, I'd
arranged to check on Peter, make sure he was still safe, but when I
arrived at his hiding place, he was gone. Yet, there was no sign of a
struggle. It didn't feel right. I was scared. I set out for your
parents' house straight away. And when I saw their house destroyed,
and their bodies… I realized what Peter must've done… what I'd
done…"As it so often had in Azkaban, the ruin
of Godric's Hollow rose before Sirius' eyes. Blinking away the
tears, he collected Snape's wand, and when he turned around, Remus
held the rat. "Ready, Sirius?""Together?""I think so."They began the reversal spell. Sirius
had not used it for many years; once he and James and Peter had
learned to transform properly, there had been no need.Suddenly, before them, was Wormtail in
human form."Why, hello, Peter," said Remus.
"Long time, no see."Even Sirius was briefly amused. Only
Remus . . . "S-- Sirius… R-- Remus … my friends, my old
friends…"Sirius had heard enough. He raised his
wand, only to be retrained and favored with a warning look from
Remus. Remus apparently wanted to do the thing thoroughly. As long
as the thing gets done…"We've been having a little chat,
Peter, about what happened the night Lily and James died," Remus
continued. "You might have missed the finer points while you were
squeaking around down there on the bed--""Remus," groveled Wormtail
pathetically. "You don't believe him, do you? He tried to kill
me, Remus.""So we've heard. I'd like to
clear up one or two little matters with you, Peter, if you'd be
so--""He's come to try to kill me again!
He killed Lily and James and now he's going to kill me, too."
Wormtail continued to spout streams of unbelievable rubbish until at
last he dissolved into pathetic sobs. "Remus! You don't believe
this… Wouldn't Sirius have told you they'd changed the plan?"
Don't listen to that, Moony, Merlin, that's it, maybe he
hasn't thought of it, of course he's thought of it!Remus still looked calm. "Not if he
thought I was the spy, Peter." He gave Sirius a look that could not
possibly have been as casual as it seemed. "I assume that's why
you didn't tell me, Sirius?" He can't intend to let me off
that easily."Forgive me, Remus," he said,
wondering if Remus heard the elaborate plea behind the three simple
words. I'm sorry. I've been sorry for a long time. I miss you.
Forgive me for suspecting you. Forgive me for not appreciating your
loyalty or your intelligence. Forgive me for taking your friends from
you. Forgive me for orphaning Harry. Forgive me for every second
you've spent thinking about this mess year after year. Forgive me
for the damn Whomping Willow thing!"Not at all, Padfoot, old friend."
Friend? Remus was rolling up his sleeves as if ready to be
both judge and executioner. Sirius nearly missed the end of Remus'
statement. "And will you, in turn, forgive me for believing you
were the spy?" As if there was a comparison. Was Remus honestly
suggesting that they were in this together? He honestly meant it to
be that simple?"Of course." It was that
easy! Sirius almost grinned. "Shall we kill him together?" he
offered."I think so."Wormtail interrupted them with a gasp.
"You wouldn't. You won't!" We would. We will! "Ron,"
he appealed to the Bigot, "haven't I been a good friend, a good
pet? You won't let them kill me, Ron, will you? You're on my
side, aren't you?"The transformation must have erased all
doubts from the Bigot's mind, because he looked horrified. "I let
you sleep in my bed!"Wormtail must have lost his
intelligence along with his dignity, morality, and loyalty, for he
continued to plead with the boy. "Kind boy… kind master… you
won't let them do it… I was your rat. I was a good pet.""If you made a better rat that a
human, it's not much to boast about, Peter," Sirius broke in, and
Wormtail turned his attention to the Banshee."Sweet girl … clever girl… you--
you won't let them… help me…" But the Banshee was silent, and
Wormtail crawled to Harry in turn. "Harry… Harry… you look just
like your father… just like him…"Begging the Bigot and the Banshee had
been bad enough, but this! This defied expression. "HOW DARE
YOU SPEAK TO HARRY? HOW DARE YOU FACE HIM? HOW DARE YOU TALK ABOUT
JAMES IN FRONT OF HIM?"The rat was undeterred. "Harry,
Harry, James wouldn't have wanted me killed." It's hard to
say that, thought Sirius in disbelief, what with James being
dead and distinctly unable to tell us what he thinks about anything.
"James would have understood, Harry v he would have shown me
mercy." Sirius shook with rage. HOW DARE HE EVEN LOOK AT HIM?
HOW DARE HE SUGGEST HE KNOWS ANYTHING ABOUT JAMES? GET AWAY FROM
HARRY! Unthinkingly, Sirius strode forward with Remus beside him.
As one, they seized Wormtail's shoulders and threw him backwards.
He landed with a not-satisfying-enough thunk."You sold Lily and James to
Voldemort," said Sirius. "Do you deny it?"Wormtail began to cry. Somehow, Sirius
was unmoved. "Sirius, Sirius, what could I have done? The Dark
Lord… you have no idea… he has weapons you can't imagine… I
was scared, Sirius, I was never brave like you and Remus and James. I
never meant it to happen… He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named forced me--""DON'T LIE! YOU'D BEEN PASSING
INFORMATION TO HIM FOR A YEAR BEFORE LILY AND JAMES DIED! YOU WERE
HIS SPY!" Briefly, Sirius remembered the Rally of Light, remembered
the obvious passage of information, remembered his worry for his dear
friend Peter…"He-- he was taking over everywhere!
What was to be gained by refusing him?"OF ALL THE IDIOTIC-- "What was
there to be gained by fighting the most evil wizard who has ever
existed? Only innocent lives, Peter!""You don't understand! He would
have killed me, Sirius!"That was the final straw. Somehow, the
whining was even worse than Pettigrew's earlier accusations and
inane assertions. Whining, when he had done the indefensible.
Whining, when he was alive! Whatever slim amount of self-control
Sirius had retained vanished. "THEN YOU SHOULD HAVE DIED!" he
bellowed. "DIED RATHER THAN BETRAY YOUR FRIENDS, AS WE WOULD HAVE
DONE FOR YOU!"Remus was by Sirius' side, and both
raised their wands. "You should have realized," said Remus, his
quiet voice a sharp contrast to Sirius' thunderous one, "if
Voldemort didn't kill you, we would. Good-bye, Peter." Eternity
in Azkaban with Remus. We'll go mad together. It will be great fun!And as they drew breath to end the
miserable saga that had begun long ago, one Harry James Potter threw
himself in front of Wormtail. "NO!" he cried. "You can't kill
him! You can't."Sirius was reasonably certain that he
could. "Harry, this piece of vermin is the reason you have no
parents. This cringing bit of filth would have seen you die, too,
without turning a hair! You heard him! His own stinking skin meant
more to him than your whole family.""I know," said Harry, and Sirius
wondered if he truly did. "We'll take him up to the castle. We'll
hand him over to the dementors. He can go to Azkaban, but don't
kill him."Harry sounded just like James always
had when he had been in charge. Sirius would not argue, and Wormtail
must have known this as well as Sirius himself did. "Harry!"
exclaimed Wormtail. "You-- thank you-- it's more than I deserve!"
He crawled closer to Harry and threw himself at the boy's feet."Get off me!" Harry bellowed. "I'm
not doing this for you. I'm doing it because I don't reckon my
dad would've wanted them to become killers, just for you."Sirius sighed inwardly. Only one human
being in the world could have stopped his quest, and he was now
before him. "You're the only person who has the right to decide,"
he admitted. "But think… think what he did…"Harry's decision was made. Manacles
were conjured, and the odd group made its way out of the Shrieking
Shack. Sirius made up for his disappointment by banging the
still-unconscious Snape's head against the low ceiling of the
tunnel. One. Two. Three. The steady sound of bumps and bruises was
soothing, and perhaps its calming effect was what allowed an odd
thought to occur to him.He had not committed the crime for
which he had been in prison. There was definitely a way to look at
this situation that suggested that he was still innocent. "You know
what this means?" he asked Harry. "Turning Pettigrew in?""You're free," said Harry, who
was not so thick when Animagi, werewolves, and vengeful professors
were not clouding the picture."Yes," Sirius agreed. He has to
know sometime. You've waited long enough, if not by choice.
"But I'm also-- I don't know if anyone ever told you-- I'm
your godfather.""Yeah, I knew that."He knew. Bit of mindless trivia for
him. He didn't spend twelve years waiting to see you…  but
you have to offer. He has the right to spit in your face, doesn't
he? Why is this more frightening than anything else? Anger is
certainly strength-giving. "Well, your parents appointed me
your guardian. If anything happened to them… I'll understand, of
course, if you want to stay with your aunt and uncle." It was
amazing, really, that Harry even tolerated Sirius' presence. Lily's
sister had been very different from James and his friends, and that
was all Harry had known. Sirius had lost any claims on the boy's
heart long ago. "But, well, think about it. Once my name's
cleared… if you wanted… a different home…""What-- live with you?" Harry was
outraged. He had every right to be, of course. "Leave the
Dursleys?" Understand, I'd never force you."Of course, I thought you wouldn't
want to. I understand, I just thought I'd--""Are you insane?" It was just a
suggestion, don't be angry! "Of course I want to leave the
Dursleys! Have you got a house? When can I move in?"WHAT WAS THAT? Sirius turned
sharply. "You want to? You mean it?""Yeah, I mean it!"Sirius fairly floated the rest of the
way out of the tunnel. He was unable to believe his luck, and then--
"He's not safe!" gasped Hermione. The full moon!He was years out of practice when it
came to werewolf-wrestling, but old skills were never forgotten, and
all would have been well-- had it not been for the dementors. His
blood seemed to freeze as the dementors all at once focused upon him.
He forgot Harry. He forgot Remus. Nothing but blood and death . .
. Not now not now not now not now not now not now not now not now
not now not now not now not now not now not now not now not now not
now not now not now not now not now no no no no no no no no no no no
no . . . "No . . . please . . . ."And all went dark.When he awoke, he was bound and gagged
and behind a heavily locked door. Flitwick's office? Been a long
time since Hogwarts . . . . Cornelius Fudge's voice wafted from
beyond the room. "Yes, we have Black. Bring a dementor-- we'll
administer the Kiss." Someone took off running down the corridor.NO!! He struggled, but the bonds
were solid."Cornelius!""Headmaster! Where has Professor
Snape gotten to?""He's down by the hospital wing, I
believe.""Seeing to the children, no doubt.
What an excellent man! You're lucky to have him working here,
Headmaster.""Yes, I believe I am." For
Merlin's sake, WHY?"You'll be coming along to speak
with him, then?""I'll speak with him later. I'd
like to see Black first." Sirius stiffened."Headmaster, I'm afraid-- no, it's
much too dangerous.""I feel quite confident that I'm
able to take care of myself, Minister.""But-- no, no, there's not even a
guard-- he's much too dangerous-- I can't allow--""Then I suppose it is lucky for me
that this is my school and not yours.""Headmaster, I must strongly
protest--""Black is bound and gagged and
without a wand. Now, I believe that Professor Snape is awaiting you
downstairs." Sirius heard Fudge's grumblings retreat, and then he
heard the removal of physical locks and locking charms. He raised
helpless eyes as Dumbledore stood before him. "If I remove the gag,
will you speak to me? Will you answer my questions?" Sirius nodded
as much as he was able, and aged fingers removed the cloth from his
mouth. He choked as it peeled away a thin layer of skin."Th--" His intended thanks died in
the air as he found his mouth too dry and stiff to form words. The
smallest flick of Dumbledore's wand brought a glass of water to
rest before them. Dumbledore nimbly pulled it into his hand and held
it to Sirius' lips. Awkwardly, Sirius swallowed. "Thank you,"
he managed this time."You are welcome.""How soon will the dementor be here?""In perhaps fifteen minutes." A
corner of Sirius' mind began to count. How ironic; it had been hard
to count in Azkaban, when time stretched on indefinitely, and easy to
count here, when time was so short. "I find it most interesting
that you did not do any harm to Harry when you had the opportunity.
Madam Pomfrey says he is merely unconscious as a result of the
dementors' attack.""I would never do anything
to hurt Harry," said Sirius fervently. "Not knowingly.
Headmaster--" He broke off. Asking Dumbledore to save his soul was
a bit much. He was no longer a fifteen-year-old in trouble for using
magic in a corridor."I never recall your being so
hesitant to speak when you were younger. I would like to hear
anything you have to say.""I should warn you that this story is
rather . . . unbelievable. Strange.""Go on."Desperately, Sirius wondered where to
begin. "When we were second-years here, Peter and James and I came
to the conclusion that Remus was a werewolf, and when he told us we
were right we wanted to help him. Werewolves aren't a danger to
animals so we became Animagi. Unregistered, obviously." Dumbledore
raised his eyebrows but gestured for Sirius to continue. "So when
James was in danger from Voldemort, later, I-- I couldn't go
through with being Secret-Keeper. It was obvious. They'd have found
me and tortured me and I'd've talked. And we'd always trusted
Peter, and no one would have suspected Peter, so I asked James and
Lily to switch without telling anyone. But Peter betrayed them, and
when I tracked him down he yelled for the whole street to hear that
I'd done it, and then blew up the street. Cut off his own finger
when he did it. Took his animal form-- a rat. So when the Minister of
Magic came to Azkaban last year, he gave me his newspaper. And there
was a story about a family that had won a prize, and one boy--
Harry's friend-- Ron?-- had a rat with a missing toe on his
shoulder. The photograph is still in my pocket."Sirius squirmed against his bonds, and
Dumbledore summoned the crumpled piece of paper. He stared at it for
a long second. "Go on.""I-- I slipped out when the dementors
brought food. Dementors can't see, and they're confused by the
emotions of a dog.""Your Animagus form." Sirius
wondered if Dumbledore was mocking him."Yes.""Continue.""I traveled as a dog to the Forbidden
Forest. The caption on that photograph-- it says the children attend
Hogwarts. And I knew Harry would be here as well. And I had to get to
Wormtail-- that was our nickname for Pettigrew, in rat form-- before
he did anything to hurt Harry." It was more easily explained, but
sounded more ridiculous, the second time around. Sirius looked
pleadingly at the old wizard."How did you manage to spend twelve
years in Azkaban without going mad?""I-- I-- I knew I was innocent. I
wasn't happy to be innocent, and the dementors didn't want the
thought, but as long as I was innocent and knew I was innocent, I
knew who I was and what I could do. Dementors don't bother a dog
much. That's my guess. I don't really know."Dumbledore nodded. "I'm going to
release you from the bonds. I trust you won't attack me?""No, Sir.""Good." The bonds were removed and
Sirius gingerly tried out his arms and legs. They worked. "Now, I
would like a demonstration of your Animagus abilities, please."
Sirius obeyed. "Fascinating. Resume your usual form." Sirius did
as he was asked. "I very much want to hear more about how you
managed this under my nose, but your time is running short and Remus
has all the time in the world to give me details. Remus knows all
about it, I assume?""Yes," Sirius agreed, and then
rushed on. "But it wasn't his idea. He didn't want us breaking
laws, and he didn't know anything about what I did this year, I
didn't even know he was here. Snape was threatening him with a
Dementor's Kiss, but none of this is his fault. You don't have to
believe my story, but--""Oh, I believe you."The room spun around Sirius. "You
do?""Yes. But I have no control over the
Ministry, and the fact remains that you have not behaved as if you
were blameless.""No." Sirius' last hope drained
away. "But Remus--""I will see that no innocents are
punished." Sirius breathed a sigh of relief. Remus was all right.
Harry was all right. "I must leave you now.""Thank you, Sir," said Sirius. "For
what it's worth, I'm sorry.""The Fat Lady will be glad to hear
it," Dumbledore called over his shoulder as he relocked the door.
Sirius sank back into his chair to await his death.A sharp rap sounded on the window
before he could sink into a last reverie, however. He looked up and
felt his jaw drop as he saw, of all things, Harry and Hermione
astride a hippogriff. He leapt up and tried to force the window
open-- locked, no wand!"Stand back!" called Hermione.
"Alohomora!" The window opened. Hadn't Remus said something
about Hermione being among the smartest in the school?"How-- how--""Get on! There's not much time,"
Harry commanded. "You've got to get out of here. The dementors
are coming. Macnair's gone to get them." As if in a dream,
Sirius climbed through the window-- he had performed a similar stunt
with a broom many times in his youth-- and flung himself onto the
beast behind Hermione. "Okay, Buckbeak, up!" Up to the tower--
come on!" Among his other talents, it seemed that Harry was a
skilled handler of hippogriffs. Hermione and Harry dismounted almost
before the beast had landed. "Sirius, you'd better go, quick.
They'll reach Flitwick's office any moment, they'll find out
you're gone."Sirius slid further forward on
Buckbeak. "What happened to the other boy? Ron?" With a sinking
feeling, Sirius realized that it was probably most rare to see Harry
and Hermione without Ron."He's going to be okay," Harry
answered urgently. "He's still out of it, but Madam Pomfrey says
she'll be able to make him better. Quick-- go--"He's spoken to me once. Once. And
here he is, risking everything, doing the impossible, when he knows
that his parents-- "How can I ever thank--""GO!" Harry and Hermione shouted
together.His father's son. Oh, his father's
son. "We'll see each other again," Sirius promised. "You
are truly your father's son, Harry." He forced the hippogriff
into the air, and did not look back to see if Harry was as infuriated
by Sirius' last remark about his James as he had been by the first.The hippogriff was well cared-for and
exceedingly powerful, and as they flew through the cool air to
freedom, Sirius felt himself relax. Pettigrew is exposed, if not
punished. Dumbledore knows what to look for. Harry forgives me. Remus
forgives me. I can-- I can write to them even if I can't see them
right away. Harry has friends and I know their names. Ron. Hermione.
They're wonderful. The cure for the disconnected thoughts and
the constant emotional flickering had been exceedingly simple: a
group meeting in the old Shrieking Shack. Cured. I'm cured. I
must have been mad, because now I'm cured.Flying at night was wonderful. He'd
forgotten how wonderful.It occurred to Sirius that he needed to
write Remus quickly. Remus' judgment had never been at its best on
the morning after a transformation when he was just too tired to
think clearly. Oh, Remus could think clearly enough about important
matters and Sirius trusted his friend with his life on any day of the
year, but Remus' self-esteem seemed to take a hit in the hours
after wolf became man. While he was confident as usual in a
professional sort of way, his sense of self was sent reeling by the
undeniably degrading experience of becoming a monster in the most
painful possible manner.And it would be just like Remus to
decide that he was entirely at fault for any danger in which Harry,
Ron, and Hermione had been placed. Once this decision was made, he
would leave Hogwarts and it would be difficult for Sirius to track
him down.Sirius had no intention of falling out
of contact with Remus again if he could possibly avoid it.He pulled the pen and a scrap of
parchment from the depths of his ragged robe and balanced them
against the neck of the hippogriff. Please excuse my penmanship,
he thought wryly. Not only am I using a Muggle writing
contraption, but I'm writing on the back of a flying hippogriff.He put pen to parchment. Dear.
And he froze. Dear who? His name is Remus, you unbelievable idiot!
a familiar and almost comforting sarcastic voice screamed from
inside his head.It was the more insidious voice, the
voice that sound less like himself and almost like the Minister of
Magic, that bothered him. What makes you think he wants anything
to do with you? You accused him of the most horrible crime you could
contemplate, and you may have just lost him an awful lot."He's my friend. He said he was my
friend. He hugged me," Sirius said aloud, hoping that the sound
would calm him down. "And he didn't hug me because I look so
huggable in my current state." He glanced at his robes with
something akin to rue. Was it his imagination, or was he so filthy
that the hippogriff's wings were beating dust from his body? "And
he didn't hug me because he hugs everyone. He hardly touches
anyone. At least he didn't used to." It had taken the better part
of their first year at school for Remus to stop flinching when he was
touched unexpectedly."Remus wants me to write to him,"
he continued, addressing himself to Buckbeak so that he would sound
almost like a normal wizard riding a stolen mystical beast through
the night. "And I'm going to do it." He drew a deep breath.
Calm down! A lot has happened and you're just excited. Don't
do anything rash. Calm down. Once he began, he found that he was
able to write quickly.Dear Remus,I hope this letter finds you well.
In fact, I hope this letter finds you at all. I am writing from a
location which must remain undisclosed for obvious reasons, but I am
writing soon after leaving you in the hopes that even a stupid owl
will be able to find you. I hope that you have not done something
ridiculous such as resign from Hogwarts over the events of a few
hours past. I know that when we were students, you were always
pre-occupied with the possibility of harming someone, and I suppose
that recent activities qualify as another "close call." But I
feel the need to remind you, hopefully without sounding
condescending, that you are very much unlikely to run into an old
friend you had thought dead for twelve years as well as a fugitive as
well as dementors as well as a psychotic Snape (he hasn't changed,
has he?) on the night of a full moon twice in a lifetime. I am
certain that you are the finest Defense Against the Dark Arts
professor Harry and his friends have ever had. They deserve you.(You do teach Defense Against the
Dark Arts, don't you? I was somewhat distracted by my desire to
murder Pettigrew, my attempts to escape the Dementor's Kiss, and
the fact that Harry looks JUST LIKE HIS FATHER to pay a great deal of
attention. No comments about how much attention I paid when I was in
school, please. Even if I hadn't been distracted, though, I
probably would have been busy laughing at the concept of Harry and
his classmates calling you "Sir" and "Professor." You must
admit that it's at least slightly amusing.)He halted suddenly as Buckbeak gave a
mid-air jump. "All right, Buckbeak?" he asked. The hippogriff
huffed indignantly and changed course sharply. Through the darkness,
Sirius saw why. A Bludger-sized mound of feathers had had the gall to
interfere with the beast's course. Sirius reached out and scooped
the owl up with a claw-like hand. It did not have a letter tied to
its leg, and while it looked slightly dazed, it appeared to be
unhurt. "Can you carry a letter to Hogwarts for me?" he asked,
hoping that his Animagus charms would convince the bird to do his
bidding. The owl seemed to agree, and Sirius wrapped it in a fold of
his robe as he hastily finished his task.I also want to apologize for any
trouble to which I may have led you and for any injuries I may have
given you during our last exchange. And I want to thank you for your
part in saving my soul. Yes, it has taken me most of a piece of
parchment to get around to thanking you. You see that the years have
not improved my manners any more than they have improved my attention
span. My thanks are no less sincere for their lateness, however.
Thank you for listening to me and thank you for understanding me and
thank you for being willing to deal with Pettigrew and thank you for
having/sharing the trust of Harry and his friends and thank you for
being perceptive enough to know what would happen and thank you for
taking the risk of being seen with a fugitive and thank you for
coming outside even on the night of the full moon. Thank you. I am
deeply in your debt and I owe you my life, such as it is.If you would like to write back to
me, do it by return owl so this dim-witted bird is able to return to
me. I will not write back right away; I need to message Harry first.
If you do want to reply, will you tell me about Harry? Anything? Is
his friend Ron all right?SiriusThe letter was formal in places, but
that was probably good. He could not jump into the letter
mid-conversation as he had in younger years.Detaching the owl from his robes, he
sent it off toward Hogwarts and once again leaned low over the neck
of Buckbeak. Hours passed, and as the light grew stronger, Sirius
began to ease his mount downwards toward a patch of trees. "We
can't let ourselves be seen in the daylight. We're very
conspicuous, and half the world is looking for us right now," he
explained. Buckbeak seemed to understand, and he thudded to an
awkward halt in the grove. Sirius dismounted stiffly. "You stay
close," he ordered the hippogriff, which had begun to nose about
the ground. "There might be Muggles around."As he settled into the shadows to begin
the long wait for dusk, the quiet double-beat of an owl's wings
sounded in his ears. Hoping against hope, he looked up. It was indeed
the same owl he had appropriated hours before. Hastily, hardly
remembering to thank the bird, he tore the letter from its leg. It
felt heavy, so it probably said more than "go away, Sirius." He
was thrilled but nervous as he began to read, scanning the letter for
any harsh words before reading it more completely.Dear Padfoot,You are not in my debt. You owe me
nothing. Let's dispense with that theory right away. I did nothing
of consequence last night. If I were as perceptive and able to hear
people out as you say, I would have known that you could never have
been the spy. Besides, magical debts are most often binding when they
connect enemies. You are not now and shall never be my enemy. We do
not need to keep track of who has done what for whom; this is not a
Quidditch match. (We would of course be keeping track if you weren't
so far ahead of me in the department of going out of one's way for
a friend, but you are and we're not. You understand.)Yes, I taught Defense Against the
Dark Arts and I will grant you that it was a bit odd to be referred
to as Professor. It was a wonderful experience nonetheless. The
students-- most of them-- are friendly and eager to learn and a joy
to be around. Classes are much smaller than they were when we were
here for obvious reasons, although there is a baby boom beginning
with the class that just finished its first year. Do you remember the
Rally of Light Dumbledore held when Harry was a baby? He said that
Harry's class might be as much as half Muggle-born. He was right;
not quite half, but over a third, of Harry's classmates come from
Muggle families. And you are correct. I did resign the position this
morning. It is too dangerous for me to be around the students. I'm
little better for them than dementors, and I could never under any
circumstances take the risk of subjecting one of them to the werewolf
curse. The damage would be life-changing and irreparable.In any case, the choice was not
mine to make. This morning, Severus "accidentally" revealed to
his students that I am a werewolf. Did we mention last night that he
is not only a professor but the Head of Slytherin House? I would have
been removed by popular demand of the students' parents had I not
resigned first. Dumbledore had to work very hard to convince the
board and the staff that I was safe at the beginning of the year, and
as he has now been proven wrong, there is very little chance that
they would ever consider allowing me to remain here. I am not whining. I have no right to
whine, especially when I consider your situation. It is disappointing
for me, but I can only be grateful for the year I spent here. In some
ways, Hogwarts is even more magical to an adult than to the students.
(And professors are allowed into the restricted section of the
library without a note.) I am glad to have seen you again. And of
course, there was Harry.I don't know what to say about
Harry. The easy way to begin is that he is very like James. He's
not as much of a trouble-maker; he claims that trouble finds him all
by itself, and I'm under the impression that he's telling the
truth. He does not have much ability to lie and is not terribly
subtle. "I like butterbeer! Not that I've been sneaking into
Hogsmeade to taste it." He's a bit shy and not prone to drawing
attention to himself by pulling pranks or speaking out in class.
Slightly insecure. Tends to be embarrassed by the attention some of
the younger students pay him. More comfortable with his best friends
than in a crowd. Other than that, he is, as I said, like James. More
considerate, I think, than James was at thirteen. More careful of the
feelings of people around him. He's clever and always asks the
difficult questions. He's endlessly loyal to Ron and Hermione, as
I'm sure that you noticed. He's very protective of them and is as
a rule more concerned for them than for himself. He loves Quidditch.
(Isn't it disconcerting to watch him play? That's when he looks
most like James.) When you write Harry, may I suggest
giving him permission to go to Hogsmeade on the weekends next year?
His aunt and uncle refused to sign the form, and the faculty was
delighted to enforce the rule in order to keep him away from you. He
did, as I mentioned, sneak out. He had the Invisibility Cloak and the
Marauder's Map, so I suppose that was to be expected. The last time
he did it, I had to play the "dead parents" card. It felt
terrible but it worked. (Severus got his hands on the Marauder's
Map during this incident and when he tried to make it reveal itself,
Mr. Padfoot "registered his astonishment that an idiot like that
ever became a professor." We must have done a very good job with
that charm. You should have seen your face when you found out about
his professorship last night. Astonishment, indeed!)Madam Pomfrey says Ron will be fine.
He is still sleeping as far as I know, but he has been completely
healed. The only harm done was to his ego; the revelation that your
pet rat is an Animagus must be rather a lot to swallow. Harry and
Hermione are fine as well. I suppose it's telling that you did not
ask about them. Would I get an answer if I asked how in the name of
Merlin you escaped? Dumbledore was speaking in riddles when I
resigned this morning. I know that you were taken into custody
because Dumbledore had to convince the Ministry that I had nothing to
do with your escape (I wish I had) as well as that I did not go out
to the Shrieking Shack with the intention of helping you.I will end this letter now, as
requested, so that the owl will be able to find you. To find me when
you have another chance to write, I suggest either a smart owl or
asking Dumbledore. I will see that he knows.Please take care of yourself and
don't do anything stupid.RemusSirius became Padfoot, but nonetheless
he re-read the letter sporadically throughout the day as he listened
for signs of human presence and looked for anything that might
possibly be edible. The following few days passed similarly. He
rarely slept; the Forbidden Forest had afforded him some protection
that no other place in the world could provide. There were a few
powerfully magical wildlife reserves and conservation areas, but he
did not know their secrets as he knew the secrets of the Forbidden
Forest. "I suppose I could learn," he told Buckbeak when they had
nearly reached the Southern coast of England.That night, they were lucky enough to
pass near a wizarding enclave. Sirius left Buckbeak near the small
community's edge and slipped, in dog form, down the town's one
street. In one yard, the remains of a picnic lay abandoned next to a
plethora of empty bottles of butterbeer and stronger. Ravenously, he
devoured the scraps of food before seeing if the family had felt the
need to dispose of ink, quills, or parchment in the recent past. They
had not, but their neighbors had.Padfoot bared his teeth in delight. He
needed to contact Harry before the term let out; there was no telling
whether his aunt, uncle, and cousin approved of owl post. Lily had
always reported that Petunia was averse to all things magical.Now he only needed to find an owl to
borrow. There was a slim chance of catching a wild one, and an even
slimmer chance of coming up with the means to purchase one. "Appear,
owl!" he commanded. In his canine form, his command sounded like a
soft bark. That was of little importance, as he had not expected an
owl to appear in any case.A squawking, fluttering noise
interrupted his thoughts. "Who do you belong to?" he did his best
to inquire with universal animal body language.With screeches that Padfoot was certain
would awaken the sleepy town, the owl explained that he belonged to
no one, that he had been hatched and the family had not wanted to
keep him, that he had tumbled from a window on the day he was to be
brought to the marketplace. Padfoot eyed the owl. He was tiny, and
his brain must have been even more so. His wings flapped madly and he
never stopped moving as he swarmed about Padfoot's head. Padfoot
felt a deep appreciation for Buckbeak, who had managed not to maul
the bird that had delivered Remus' letter so many days ago.Pulling parchment and ink carefully
into his mouth, Padfoot nodded at the owl and then at the quill.
Hooting eagerly, the owl grabbed the quill in its beak and proceeded
to drop it at least six times as he followed the dog from the town.Reunited with Buckbeak, Padfoot changed
his form once more. "Would you like to work for me?" he asked the
owl. The owl bobbed up and down enthusiastically. "Fly beside me,"
he ordered. "Up, Buckbeak."For the rest of the journey, as the owl
flew happily and Buckbeak flew resignedly, Sirius internally composed
his letter to Harry. He had to make himself sound like someone Harry
could trust. Like someone he would like, but someone who should be
taken seriously. He had to sound godfatherly without forcing anything
on his godson.They stopped their travel earlier than
was their wont because the next leg of the voyage would involve
traveling to mainland Europe, and they could not risk failing to
finish before the sun was high in the sky. Sirius settled down to
write.Dear Harry,I hope this finds you before you
reach your aunt and uncle. I don't know whether they're used to
owl post.Buckbeak and I are in hiding. I
won't tell you where in case this owl falls into the wrong hands. I
have some doubt about his reliability, but he is the best I could
find, and he did seem eager for the job.I believe the dementors are still
searching for me, but they haven't a hope of finding me here. I am
planning to allow some Muggles to glimpse me soon, a long way from
Hogwarts, so that the security on the castle will be lifted.There is something I never got
around to telling you during our brief meeting. It was I who sent you
the Firebolt. Crookshanks took the order to the Owl Office for me. I
used your name but told them to take the gold from my own Gringotts
vault. Please consider it as thirteen birthdays' worth of presents
from your godfather. I would also like to apologize for
the fright I think I gave you that night last year when you left your
uncle's house. I had only hoped to get a glimpse of you before
starting my journey north, but I think the sight of me alarmed you.I am enclosing something else for
you, which I think will make your next year at Hogwarts more
enjoyable. If you ever need me, send word. Your
owl will find me.I'll write again soon. SiriusP. S. I thought your friend Ron
might like to keep this owl, as it's my fault he no longer has a
rat.When he had finished his letter was
uninteresting but hopefully reassuring. "It doesn't matter that
it isn't interesting," he told the owl as he tied it to the
parchment. "I'm an escaped convict. That's interesting enough.
And I might have stretched the truth about how safe I am, but it will
be true soon. The dementors will never get into a reserve outside the
United Kingdom." He held the owl in his hand before letting it go.
"Now, I owe a great deal to the boy I'm sending you to meet. His
name is Harry Potter. He's almost fourteen years old. He's a
student at Hogwarts School and he'll probably be on the Hogwarts
Express by the time you get that far north. All right?" The owl
hooted with a confidence that Sirius did not share."I'm going to give you as a gift to
another boy, a friend of Harry's. I owe him a great deal as well.
The last time I saw him, I broke his leg and … was the cause of his
pet's running away. I want you to be a good pet for him.
Understand?"The owl hooted again and vanished to
the north.Sirius strained his eyes, hoping to
catch a last glimpse of the bird, but he did not. Sighing, he
transformed once more into Padfoot and set out looking for Muggles.
It would not do not to keep his word to Harry, especially as Harry
had saved his soul. I ought to be helping him, not the other way
around, he growled to himself as he trotted along.The task of finding someone to frighten
was startlingly simple, and it gave Sirius a warm feeling of
confidence that perhaps he had not lost his trouble-making touch. His
name and photograph must have been in the Muggles papers over the
past week as he had once more evaded custody. The three young women
pointed and screamed, but before they could draw much attention, he
was off, around a corner, and in his canine form.The remainder of his journey was almost
relaxing. He was far from Hogwarts and Azkaban and dementors, and in
Buckbeak he had a living thing that did not flinch at the sight of
him.The tropical climate of the reserve was
welcome, and the wildlife provided meals for both Sirius and
Buckbeak. They did their best not to devour any protected species,
although Sirius could not say for certain what sorts of animals had
been placed on the endangered lists over the past thirteen years. To
some degree, he was even able to clean himself in the river that
flowed through the reserve although he harbored no illusions about
his appearance.When he and Buckbeak were recovered
from the hard weeks of traveling, Sirius began his quest for
parchment. Parchment had become the great desire of his life; it was
more important than anything but food. The great joy of my life:
writing letters. It's not the same as Quidditch, but I'll admit
that there's a lot to be said for it. He smiled, and his face
seemed stiff as it adjusted to the odd expression.The witches and wizards who lived near
the reserve to keep the grounds and tend to any wounded animals
seldom bothered to lock their windows and doors, but Sirius trained a
parrot to steal his writing supplies rather than go after them
himself. The training passed enjoyably; magical parrots were quite
intelligent and would long ago have made owls obsolete had they not
been so expensive and conspicuous.He had already memorized Remus'
letter and did not need to drag it from the safe folds of his robes
to reply.Dear Professor Moony, Sir,I know that you said I should use a
smart owl to find you, but how do you feel about a smart parrot? I
like this one. He speaks more English than your average Slytherin
Quidditch player. And you wouldn't think that colors like these
would occur outside a potion gone wrong.Thank you for the suggestion about
Hogsmeade form. It's just like Dumbledore to accept the signature
of a fugitive who has only once spoken to his godson as valid
permission. And thank you for your part in my escape. You did play a
part, Moony. If Harry had not been able to conjure a Patronus, we
would all have lost our souls on Hogwarts grounds. No one but you
would have managed to teach a thirteen-year-old that kind of magic.
No one but you would have tried.Harry and Hermione flew a purloined
Hippogriff by the name of Buckbeak to the room where I was being held
and unlocked the window. That is the short version of my escape. I
would give you the long version if I knew it, but Harry and Hermione
refused to explain anything to me. They were under the impression
that because I was moments away from receiving the Dementor's Kiss
and the castle was full of Ministry types and schoolboy rivals, I
should not ask what was going on. Harry is truly is father's son,
and I see wgy he chose Ron and Hermione as his friends.If I hadn't sworn off murderous
grudges for Harry's sake, I would be plotting Snape's demise as
you read. "Accidentally" revealing that you are-- I could kill
the man, I honestly could. It took him twenty years, but he finally
had you thrown out of Hogwarts, and never mind the effect it had on
the students. Why does Dumbledore let him stay there? Does he have
any ability to teach at all? I can't imagine that he does. Has he
taken up washing his hair yet? Never mind, I don't want to know. I
should not be wasting my ink on him. Never was anyone worth less. Do
stop calling him Severus, by the way. It makes you sound like old
friends.I did not think you were whining in
your last letter. I wanted to know what happened and you told me. If
you do feel like whining, go ahead. You have every right. You were
treated unfairly, and I take it that you have been treated unfairly
all the while that we have been apart. In many ways, these past
almost-thirteen years must have been harder on you than on me. You
lost almost everyone you cared about in one fell swoop, and when the
war was over you would have been forced out of proper wizarding
society. Moving every time you were discovered at exactly the time
that you barely had enough energy to begin with and never holding
steady employment . . . it must have been terrible. One thing about
prison is the promise of food and shelter. Besides, I knew the truth.
I did not have to waste any effort mourning the rat, as I'm sure
you did. And as for James and Lily, their deaths can be placed
squarely on my head, and knowing this, I also knew I was deserving of
my guilt and grief. You were an innocent victim. I hate the thought
of what you must have gone through. If I had any means at my
disposal, I would try to make it up to you. I know that I never can
"make it up to you," of course, but something would be better
than nothing. Not that I would know what to do if I were Dumbledore
himself. I was almost surprised when you wrote to me. I would not
blame you for hating me. I'm not crazy about me.I am considering resenting the last
line of your letter. I mean it. "Don't do anything stupid?" As
if I ever would. To whom do you think you're writing, Professor? PadfootHe messaged his belated thanks to
Dumbledore as well, and eagerly awaited a response from one of his
three correspondents.The three letters arrived on the same
day and that gift pleased him more than any he had received on
Christmas or a birthday as a child.Hedwig, Harry's owl, came first. Her
snow-white feathers looked out of place amidst the sweltering jungle.Dear Sirius,Thank you for your letter and for
permission to go to Hogsmeade. My aunt and uncle would never have
signed the form and even though I tried not to be too jealous of Ron
and Hermione, it was hard. I don't think I'll spend my time
visiting the Shrieking Shack and wondering who haunts it, though. And
of course, thank you for the Firebolt! It is the best present anyone
has ever given me. I love Quidditch and as you know, I really needed
a broom when this one arrived. Most of the owl-orders were
recommending the Nimbus 2001, but I couldn't get one of those
because that's what the Slytherin team uses.Ron says thank you for the owl, as
well. He was thrilled when we got the letter on the Hogwarts Express
and you said he could keep it. Ron was fine the day after you left,
by the way. Madam Pomfrey can fix almost anything. We're just sorry
that Wormtail got away so that you have to hide. We're also sorry
that Professor Lupin resigned. He was the best Defense Against the
Dark Arts professor we ever had. He might have been the best
professor we ever had at all. Everyone in the school except the
Slytherins was miserable when word got around that he was leaving.
Some people even had their parents write letters to Dumbledore in
support of him. I tried to talk him into staying but he said no. Things are all right here. The
Dursleys don't like magic very much, but the summer isn't that
long. My cousin Dudley is on a diet. It's about thirteen years too
late, but Aunt Petunia would never admit that he needed one until his
school (Smeltings) said that they couldn't make a uniform big
enough for him. He throws a tantrum every day that makes the whole
house shake. Thank you again for everything. I
hope you are enjoying yourself at least a little bit.HarryThe letter was just a step above
impersonal, but Sirius cherished every word. It was a pleasure to
know that Harry flourished the "y" when he signed his name and
that he refused to ride a broom approved by Slytherin House.Hedwig looked at Sirius as if waiting
for instruction. Sirius waved her off. "Go ahead. I'll send the
reply with one of the native birds." Hedwig gave a disdainful hoot
and left, but Sirius thought that Harry might enjoy seeing a tropical
bird outside his window.Almost as soon as Hedwig had left, two
more owls swooped downward. One was clearly a Hogwarts owl, and one
was a more nondescript post owl. Sirius reached for the Hogwarts owl
first. It ruffled its feathers importantly and took off after Hedwig.Dear Sirius,I am delighted to know that you and
your companion are safe and sound. Hagrid is still celebrating
Buckbeak's freedom and those of us who are aware of certain facts
are still celebrating yours. Do let me know if there is anything
I can do to help you. As you know, there is little chance that you
will be proven innocent until we can find Wormtail. Again, I
congratulate you and James for achieving such a feat as you did
during your time as students here. Remus has given me the details
that you did not. As you may already know, he has left Hogwarts. The
loss is ours and we all wish he would have done differently. He
greatly entertained his students with tales of boggarts and beautiful
vampires. I would like to ask one favor of you
before I close. You seem to be in the process of developing a close
relationship with your godson. Sometimes he is reluctant to confide
important information to me; should he tell you something with
bearing upon his safety or a potential power gain by Lord Voldemort,
please let me know.Sincerely,A. D. Finally, Sirius reached for the last
letter. His excitement reached a fever pitch at the mere sight of
Remus' handwriting, although he knew that the letter was likely to
be filled with news he would not want to read.Dear Sirius,I most certainly do not hate you and
I hope that you were only being melodramatic when you said that you
did not especially like yourself. Receiving a letter from you is
always the highlight of my week. THIS IS NOT BECAUSE THE REST OF MY
WEEK IS AWFUL BY COMPARAISON. I am FINE. I am HAPPY. The last thing
in the world that you ought to be doing is concerning yourself about
me.For one of the brightest students
who has ever passed through Hogwarts, you manage to come up with some
galactically stupid ideas. One is that Lily and James' deaths are
on your head. Voldemort killed them. Wormtail betrayed them. You did
not. You were a victim-- more so than I was. This brings us to
another of your inane suggestions: that my life over the past decade
was in any way comparable to yours. It was not entirely pleasant, but
I have never heard of a life that was. My friends were taken from me and I
was sad. I would not have been human if that had not been so. (All
right, I'm not human, but you know what I mean.) I grieved for
them, James and Lily and Peter, and for you, too. I was sad for Harry
and I was sad for myself because I had lost all of you. But I was not
placed in a time warp by the dementors. I did not relive the worst
experiences of my life over and over again for twelve years. I met
interesting people and saw interesting things even if my life was not
idyllic. And I reached a state of mind where I could only be grateful
that I knew James and Lily. It was an incredible stroke of luck and
an unbelievable blessing to have had them in my life for any amount
of time at all. You remembered your worst experiences with them, and
I remembered my best. I hope that you can give me enough credit to
accept that I have not remained miserable during every day that has
past since that Halloween. I had bad days, of course, and spending
time at Hogwarts was a wild emotional ride. I remembered so many
things I'd not known I'd forgotten, and I can't say that I was
eager to come face-to-face with you.I never could wrap my mind around
the idea that you'd been the spy. I believed it because I thought
the evidence incontrovertible. Nonetheless, it never made sense. And
I did my best to write off "betrayal by Secret-Keeper" as
something I would never be able to understand while I focused on
other things.Now I know that I was wrong to
believe you guilty, and for that I am sorry. I was not harmed by lack
of information but protected by it. If I had known that you were
being subjected to Azkaban while the traitor went free, I don't
know what I would have done. Tried to help you and gotten killed in
the process, I expect. But I did not know until after the fact. The
thought of you being cold and alone and dirty and bored for so many
years on end makes me sick, Sirius. That's enough of that. About
Snape-- I have no idea why Dumbledore trusts him. I don't doubt
that he has a reason, but your guess is as good as mine as to what it
might be. His hair looks the same as it always did. (Snape's, that
is. Well, Dumbledore's, too.) He may be a good teacher to the
Slytherins, but he habitually reduces the other students-- especially
the Gryffindors-- to tears. I even had one student in Gryffindor
(Neville Longbottom, Frank's son) who saw Snape in a boggart.
Boggart-Snape cross-dressing ensued. Everyone in the school, except
for one person, thought this hilarious.Please take care of yourself and
don't do anything stupid.MoonySirius dropped the precious letter on
the ground as a fit of laughter seized him. Severus Snape,
cross-dressing! He tried not to imagine it too clearly. Instead, he
did his best to picture the expression on Snape's face when he
heard what had happened. Still laughing, he stretched himself out
carelessly on the ground, temporarily forgetting that he ought not
make so much noise, particularly in broad daylight. Moony had always
had such a wonderful sense of humor; he had surely given Neville a
nudge in the cross-dressing direction during that lesson.Suddenly, Sirius heard his gales of
laughter turn into sobs and realized belatedly that he was not so
much breathing as choking and gasping. STOP IT! he reprimanded
himself harshly. YOU'RE OUT OF AZKABAN AND HARRY KNOWS THE TRUTH
AND DUMBLEDORE AND MOONY AND YOU'RE FINE NOW SO STOP CRYING! He
wasn't especially ashamed of the tears; he had heard a great deal
of sobbing in Azkaban, and even before. The Dark Lord's reign of
terror had caused many fine wizards and witches to cry. But he knew
that making so much noise, even in a secluded place, could be the
cause of his death. Even if he did not attract a human, he might
attract a dangerous animal from which he could not defend himself
without a wand.The knowledge that he was placing
himself in danger did not stop his sobs from echoing off the trees.
YOU'RE FREE! YOU'RE ALIVE! YOU'RE SANE! Never mind
those who aren't.On the night of a full moon, perhaps a
month into his stay in Azkaban, Sirius had regained the slightest bit
of awareness. He had then realized that he had the ability to
transform into a dog, and had thus been able to simplify his
feelings. The more time he had spent in his canine form, the stronger
his ability to hold a train of thought or control himself had grown. 
He had stopped yelling, screaming, swearing that he was sorry and
begging James to forgive him. He had stopped howling for Pettigrew's
blood, although the rat had never been far from his thoughts. The
whole of his energy had been focused on control, and so he had rarely
lost control. Rarely.One day, when Sirius had been in
Azkaban for more than a year, a commotion drew him to the bars of his
cell door. It was odd that he had heard anything unusual; the
prisoners were screaming and howling as always. Perhaps he was
learning to tune out screaming. Was a new prisoner arriving? Or even
several? The dementors were certainly agitated.With a pop, Sirius became human. He
could not allow a wizard or a witch to take note of his alternate
form."NO! I DIDN'T DO IT!" The
voice was new; Sirius had not heard it before. He leaned against the
bars, straining his eyes through the dusty darkness of Azkaban for a
better look. The boy was pure white; even his hair was what must have
been in sunlight a beautiful shade of blond.The dementors were un-moved by the
plea as they dragged their prey along. The boy seemed too frightened
to look into the cells that lined his path, and so Sirius could not
glimpse his face. Still, he could tell that the boy was, in fact, a
boy. He was even younger than Sirius himself. He could not have been
a day over the age of nineteen, and his fright made Sirius feel very,
very old at twenty-two. No longer was Sirius "the pretty boy barely
out of his teens" who was not expected to last a week in Azkaban
after the crimes for which he had been committed. "NO! I didn't
do it!"A heavyset man was next. His dull
gaze was fixed on the ground as he moved along without fighting the
dementors. Sirius imagined that he had looked much the same when he
had first entered Azkaban. He had been thought already mad, and had
behaved docilely, as this man did now.Next was a thinner man, and Sirius
was so startled upon recognizing him that he let out a gasp. The
man's head turned, and though he looked worn and fearful, he met
Sirius' gaze. "I always said I'd see you in hell, Black," he
said.Sirius let go of the bars and
stepped backwards into a low, sarcastic bow. "Welcome, Lestrange. I
hope you enjoy your stay. Did you bring along your lovely wife?""I am proud to come to Azkaban for
my Lord," a clear, female voice answered. The dementors may as well
have been escorting her to a Yule Ball; it seemed that they hung on
her arms rather than restrained her."Your Lord is gone!" Sirius
informed her."He shall rise again." Her
supreme confidence might have sent chills down his spine had he not
been in a state of permanent coldness. "It does not matter what
your little friend's little boy did. My Lord will return." She
was placed in a cell almost directly across from Sirius' own.
Sirius could not see her, but he could hear her clearly. "Pity your
friend Jimmy shan't."Sirius clenched his teeth. No one
had ever called James "Jimmy" unless he or she wanted to be
hexed. James had regarded his name as something of a cross to bear
until he decided that he liked how Lily said it. The dementor that had just closed
the door of Mrs. Lestrange's cell sensed Sirius' pale bittersweet
melancholy at his memory of the beginning of James and Lily's
romance. It lunged toward Sirius, and Sirius fell to his knees rather
more quickly than he would have liked to admit. James' voice rang
in his ear. "You killed me! You killed Lily! Killed us! Killed us!"Panting, Sirius transformed. His new
prisonmate called out to him several more times before turning her
attention to her husband. Somehow, Padfoot managed to fall asleep
curled against the thin, hard slab that was meant to serve as a bed. 
When he awoke, it was night. He
shook himself, wanting to shake off the dream. As a nice change of
pace, he had dreamed of Remus being slowly tortured to death as
punishment for killing Snape when he, Sirius, had been the one
responsible. "MUMMY! I WANT MY MUMMY! I'M SORRY, MUMMY, SAVE ME,
SAVE ME! PLEASE, PLEASE, I'M COLD! I'M SCARED. I DIDN'T MEAN
IT! MUMMY!""What's his name?" he asked in
the general direction of the Lestranges. They were unlikely to be
asleep. New prisoners did not fall asleep in Azkaban; they passed out
after being kept awake for a few days or a week."That's Barty Crouch," Mrs.
Lestrange offered in her usual controlled voice. "Pathetic, isn't
he? Though I'll reckon you were just as bad.""Thanks for your concern."She laughed. Sirius did not remember
hearing her laugh previously and it was not a pretty sound. "Oh,
you do seem to be doing quite well for having been in here a year.""Again, thank you." It seemed
odd that she was striking up a conversation with him. They had never
been friends; quite the contrary. Somehow, though, he was not
surprised that the dementors were not affecting her. She was a true
believer in her cause, and she obviously felt Azkaban a worthy
alternative to ruling the world by Voldemort's side.Sirius was still reeling from the
revelation that the pale boy had been Barty Crouch-- presumably the
son of the Barty Crouch who had sent him here: You scum. You filth.
You don't deserve a trial. A waste of time in any case."Aren't you going to ask what
I'm in for? I'd ask you, but I already know. Poor Jimmy and-- was
it Lilypad? Lilyliver? Liliputian? Betrayed by their dear Sirius.""I never betrayed them," said
Sirius, furious that his voice was shaking and hers was not. "Of course not. It would be to
insult myself to suggest that you were on my side. Now be the
chivalrous gentleman we all know you used to like to pretend you were
and ask me what I'm in for. And maybe I'll be kind enough to
answer your later questions. You got Crouch's name for free."Sirius rolled his eyes. "Very
well. What did they catch you doing?""You remember Frank Longbottom? He
tried and failed to train you into something that might actually have
been a thorn in our side?""What about him?""He'll not train anyone else! He
wouldn't help us find Our Lord, and so we punished him. CRUCIO!""CRUCIO!" echoed her husband's
voice, and the voice of the heavyset man."Superb, model, Gryffindor, Head
Boy, perfect Frank Longbottom a blubbering mess on the floor of his
house with his wife twitching beside him and his little brat
screaming from across the room!""CRUCIO!""CRUCIO!""If we were going to come here,
that was the way to do it!""Almost worth it.""He begged!""He groveled!""Pleaded!"There was great pride in the three
voices. Sirius began to feel ill, even by Azkaban standards. He had
forced himself to eat, as he often did, because he had a vague plan
of living long enough to escape and tell the world-- or at least
James' son-- the truth. Now he was sorry he had eaten as his
stomach wrenched."Cried!" The new prisoners were
still bragging. "Howled!""Lost his voice screaming!""That's your role model, Black!""That's your mentor!""And you know why we did it? Other
than to find Our Lord?""Do you?""Want to know?""Of course he does!""We did it because in our first
year the big-shot Head Boy thought he'd take points because we
caught little Pettigrew and stuck him the ceiling of the Great Hall.
I told him one day he'd pay, and now he has.""PETTIGREW!" howled one of the
older prisoners."We never should have trusted
something that weak," Lestrange said scornfully. "But he will
pay!""When Our Lord returns!""At least he took the Potters with
him when he died." Sirius was lucid enough to know
simple bullying when he heard it. He was powerless, though, and did
not respond. "Suppose Jimmy cried like
Longbottom when he died?""No, no, don't kill me! Kill my
wife and baby, but let me live!" Lestrange could do a cruel
imitation of James' voice."Don't hurt me! Please! Please!""I wonder if Black will come to
save me!""No, no, I'll have to die slowly
and all alone!""Slowly and painfully, failed by
my friends!"In spite of himself, Sirius felt
tears spring to his eyes. He drew in a shaky breath and transformed,
trying to stretch his tail to cover his ears. The impromptu theater
performance looked set to continue a while longer; the new prisoners
were strong because they had all come in together. Mrs. Lestrange in
particular believed herself to have done no wrong, and so the
dementors were not affecting her terribly. Besides, the inhuman
guardians were focused on the weak boy further along the corridor.
Sirius wondered if the boy was dying already. The dementors seemed
very excited.No, the dementors were excited by
the Lestranges. They drew nearer, and soon the men's voices became
moans. Even the woman quieted slightly. It did not matter. The images of
James dying had never been far from Sirius' eyelids, and now they
were added to the new images of Frank, slowly succumbing to the
Cruciatus Curse as the son he so loved watched."MUMMY!" Young Crouch had never
ceased his shrieking. Sirius had never been one to seek the
protection of those stronger than he. He detested those who did. But
now, he almost wished, like young Crouch, that someone would come and
save him.No one came.He was glad that dogs could not cry.
Humans, of course, could cry,
and Sirius' tears did not slow. He dragged himself to his feet,
knowing that he should not be lying on the ground in such an exposed
position, but once on his feet he did not know what to do. He took a
single halting step only to find that his long, matted hair had
become entangled with a vine that had been growing up the trunk of a
tree. Infuriated, he ripped the hair free, tearing it as he did so.And to punish the tree, he punched it.
He punched it with his right hand and then with his left, and then
with his right again. He kicked the tree, and hit it until blood ran
from his knuckles down to his elbows.It was the tree's fault that James
was dead and Lily was dead and Frank and his wife had been tortured.
Sirius told it so. He even yelled once or twice, not caring that to
attract attention meant suicide. He struck his head against the
tree's rough trunk.I hate you hate you hate you how
could you you killed them I killed them Lily and James Lily and James
Sirius how could you come along Azkaban for you Azkaban for life so
young dead after a year how many years years they didn't get him
have to get Wormtail Harry doesn't know hates me orphaned him my
fault with his aunt and uncle no magic not happy there because of me
not safe from Wormtail went free and Snape why Snape inside the
Whomping Willow made Remus a killer going to kill me Harry just a
baby how could he live just a baby in the room Crucio Crucio Crucio
in front of him no parents like Harry . . . .Thoughts and words were incoherent and
the streams of blood multiplied.As in Azkaban, he wanted someone to
come and save him.No one came."No one is going to come," he said
aloud in a wet but clear voice. "I have to take care of myself.
Like Moony said." Who was Sirius to refuse Remus anything? How
could I have suspected him? he asked himself for the umpteenth
time. He was too tired to wonder about an answer now. Surely, though,
Remus would one day ask.Methodically, he walked to the river
and rinsed his hands. He had done himself some damage, and he longed
for a wand or at least a healing potion. It would not do to get an
infection.He cupped water in his hands and
splashed it on his face. As he did, his fingers once more tangled in
his hair. He shook his head ruefully. He had been ignoring his hair
and beard, and it now occurred to him that he would be much more
comfortable if he rid himself of them. At the rate he was gaining
weight, he might even render himself unrecognizable from the escaped
convict whose picture had been printed in every journal in the world.Unfortunately, Sirius had lost his
knife in the fiasco at Hogwarts. He allowed his eyes to stray in the
direction of the groundskeepers' homes. Everything he needed would
be found there. He had not borrowed anything since the parchment, and
as he had been a very well-behaved fugitive, he expected that they
owed him.As Padfoot, Sirius approached the small
cluster of houses. He cocked his head to listen, wondering if one
structure or another might be empty even now. It seemed that the
three closest to him were. It would be a risk to rush in without a
plan, but not a grave risk. He would almost certainly have time to
transform if he was interrupted. Besides, now that he had made a
decision, he was eager to act.Padfoot nosed the door open carefully
and looked about the tiny house. It was clearly empty, and would
likely remain so until its inhabitant's workday ended. Nonetheless,
Sirius lost no time in transforming and seeking out a pair of
scissors, another roll of parchment, and the shower. All were found
with relative ease, and he stood before the mirror beside the shower
within seconds."Oh dear," said the mirror. "Are
you all right?""Getting there," replied Sirius. He
raised the scissors to his head and began to cut haphazardly. There
was no reason to wash hair he had no plans to keep. The beard
followed, although he had to complete that job with a razor. It was
odd that the razor was present; most wizards simply cast spells on
themselves in lieu of physically shaving. The concept of raking a
blade across one's face had always struck Sirius as slightly
barbaric, and it was one Muggle custom he had never attempted to
adopt.He cut himself more than once, but when
he was done the ridiculous hair was gone and deposited almost neatly
on a square of parchment for later disposal. Then, hesitantly, he
stepped into the shower. As a Hogwarts student, he had once enchanted
the showers in the Quidditch changing rooms to sound a shrill alarm
should they be entered by a Slytherin player, and since then he had
felt an odd pang of apprehension when he began to wash in a strange
place.His worry was groundless. The shower
had been perfectly enchanted, and he raised his hands to his head to
begin to remove the filth from his hair. The shampoo refused to foam;
perhaps he should have shaved his head as well. His hair seemed to be
a lost cause. He nearly shouted with frustration and repeated his
actions. At last, his fingers touched foam as they caressed his
scalp, and an odd feeling of cool nakedness that he could hardly
remember as "clean" began to cross him. Meanwhile, the rivulets
of water that tracked down his body left the floor on which he stood
blackened.It took long moments of scraping and
rubbing to eliminate even the first level of filth from his body. He
had been swimming in the river, but this sort of washing did not
produce the same clinically clean results as a real shower with soap.The water temperature had been
perfectly regulated, but suddenly Sirius felt cold. I wonder if
the dirt was keeping me warm, he thought darkly. "Hotter," he
ordered the shower, which complied. He could feel the change, but it
was not great enough to chase the new chill from his bones. "Hotter,"
he repeated, as if to establish that he could be warm, that he could
be hot, even after twelve years in Azkaban. "Hotter."It was not until he took a hard look at
his skin that he realized he had scalded himself. He had forgotten
that such a thing could happen. "Stop." The water stopped, and
Sirius tremblingly wrapped a towel around his body. He did not think
it likely that he could clean his robes particularly well without
magic, and he was loathe to put the dirty rags back on his body.
Instead, he crept through the house, barely mindful that he was
dripping, and looked for replacements.He was pleased to find Muggle clothing
in the small bedroom. This would disguise him better than clean
robes. "I'm sorry," he said to the unknown owner of the house.
"But I need them more than you do." He gathered up his belongings
and left the house in dog form before returning to his hiding place.Once there, he leaned against a tree,
his skin still sore where it had been burned, and began to write. He
needed to do something at least slightly productive, and he needed to
begin by reassuring Remus lest Remus worry that his letter had
triggered a memory that sent Sirius down the path to temporary
lunacy.Dear Moony, I am backing off. All right? You can
take care of yourself and you are leading a perfectly wonderful life.
However, I refuse to stop concerning myself with you. And my backing
off in no way constitutes an admission that I was not at fault for
Halloween, 1981. Azkaban is miserable, as everyone
knows. But the cold-- it's something you get used to. You adjust.
The same with washing. It's more of a problem for people who run
into us. And I wasn't so lonely. It took a good long time for the
Lestranges to go mad, probably because they were in there together,
and for those years it was just like being back in a potions lesson.
Don't ever trouble yourself about my time in Azkaban, Moony. Prison
is not meant to be pleasant but no permanent damage was done.You have no need to be guilty for
believing I was the spy. The whole world believed I was the spy. I
laid the trap for myself. And to slightly twist the immortal words of
arguing childhood friends, I started it.Now, on to the important news: HOW
COULD YOU HAVE WAITED THIS LONG TO TELL ME ABOUT THE CROSS-DRESSING?
Honestly. You need to get your priorities straight. I'm not sure
whether I should ask what he was wearing or not. Would it give me a
laugh or would it just give me night terrors? Perhaps I should ask
about Neville as well-- is he in Harry's class, then? Has he grown
up well? I heard a lot of bragging about torturing Frank. Did Frank
live? The lengths to which one human being will go to harm another
will never cease to amaze me.The weather is quite lovely here.
The air is clear and the sun is warm, and hopefully no unwelcome
reader of our correspondence will be able to pinpoint my location
from that description. Please note that I am not enjoying clean air
and warm sunlight because I did not get much exposure to them in
Azkaban. I would have enjoyed them anyway. They are commonly thought
to be good things. And while I know that I'm not common at all,
sometimes I like to pretend.I received a message from Dumbledore
the other day. (We correspond so that I can grovel before him in
thanks for all he has done for Harry.) He says that you were an
exceptional professor (as does Harry) and that the classes were
entertained by your tale of a beautiful vampire. Care to elaborate?Please take care of yourself and try
to have a little bit of fun.PadfootSirius decided to respond to Harry as
well. He did not want to pressure the boy into accepting him into his
life-- but he did want to be accepted, as much for Harry's safety
as for his own peace of mind.Dear Harry,Thank you for your letter. You and
Ron are very welcome; but you were only given your due and there was
no real reason to thank me.As I recall, your aunt was never
especially fond of magic. If it would make things easier for you,
please do not hesitate to tell your family that your convict
godfather will hunt them down and attack them if they do anything to
make you uncomfortable or unhappy. This is not far from the truth,
incidentally. I know that I have said this before, but please let me
know if you need me.I am sorry that Professor Lupin
resigned as well, and I do not doubt that he was an excellent
teacher. However, convincing him to change his mind once it has been
made up is something of a Herculean task.As promised, I allowed some Muggles
to see me and I am certain that the dementors have been removed from
Hogwarts grounds. I sincerely doubt that Dumbledore would have
allowed them to remain in any case. I will write again in time for your
birthday.SiriusSirius smiled. Harry's birthday was
at the end of July, and not so far away. Now that he was almost
presentable, he wondered if there might exist some way to obtain his
godson's present without resorting to theft.After checking to see that Buckbeak was
properly bedded down, Sirius returned to dog form and fell asleep.The next morning, he began exploring
the reserve and its surrounding areas more completely than he had
done before when he had been buried by the need for food and letters.
The nearest Muggle town was not far away, and within a week he had
found some employment as a day laborer. He began to scan the area for
Muggle shops and wizarding ones and planning the best way to spend
his windfall. Living as he was off the land, he had no real expenses,
but he could not risk buying that which he most wanted: a wand.He was almost surprised when he found
that enough time had passed to expect news from his correspondents.Dear Sirius,This letter is shaping up to be a
depressing one. You picked the wrong questions to ask. Frank and his
wife are not dead. They are permanently confined to Saint Mungo's.
They have never shown any signs of being aware of the world around
them. Neville lives with his grandmother. He is indeed a Gryffindor
and one of Harry's roommates. He struggles in classes (except for
Herbology) and seems to be convinced that he is almost a squib. The
general consensus among the professors is that he is actually
suffering from the after-effects of losing his parents the way he
did. He is apparently repressing his natural magical talent. He's
not naturally powerful the way Harry is, of course, but there is
something there that he isn't yet ready to use. He's a very nice
boy in any case.It was his grandmother's clothing
into which Neville forced his boggart Snape: a hat with a vulture, a
big red handbag, and the like. I think the news spread from one end
of the school to the other in less than ninety seconds. All of Harry's classmates are
exceptional in one way or another and I was very impressed with them.
(Speaking of Harry's friends, I don't know if you worked out to
which branch of Weasleys Ron belongs. His eldest brother Bill
attended Hogwarts at the same time as us; he is five years our junior
and was a Gryffindor. I think he may have been the victim of one or
two of our pranks, but I can't be certain. We tormented a lot of
the younger students. There are four brothers in between Bill and Ron
and one little girl named Ginny who is helplessly in love with Harry.
I'm not certain whether he knows how badly smitten she is, but he
has never encouraged her.)The vampire was not particularly
beautiful. I am changing locations again. I'm
not going far; just to a cottage well outside this town. Dumbledore
owns it and has asked me to take care of it. Ordinarily, I would
attempt to find a way not to accept this kind of help, but I've
seen the place and someone ought to be living in it. It might as well
be me. I will send this out now because the
moon will be full tonight. Take care of yourself and don't do
anything stupid.RemusSirius moved on to Harry's letter.Dear Sirius,I actually have already taken you up
on your offer to help me with the Dursleys. When they met me at the
Hogwarts Express last month, I told them about you and that you broke
out of wizarding prison. (I might have forgotten to say that you were
innocent.) When I told them that you wanted me to be happy, they let
me keep my school things in my room instead of locking them away for
the summer. Hopefully I will get to visit Ron for the end of the
summer, anyway. He says that his father (who works for the Ministry
of Magic) might be able to get us tickets to the Quidditch World Cup!Even if we can't go see the World
Cup, I will probably visit Ron anyway. Hermione will be there as
well, although I think it's technically Ron's sister Ginny who
invites Hermione since Hermione has to share her room. And Ron's
brothers Fred and George, they're twins, are Beaters on
Gryffindor's Quidditch team. So we'll get to play Quidditch even
if we don't get to watch it.Mostly I've been doing my homework
so far this holiday. Was History of Magic boring when you were at
Hogwarts, too?I hope you and Buckbeak are doing
well.HarrySirius knew that Harry's birthday was
drawing ever closer, and so he sent a parrot with a packet of Muggle
money to a bank with instruction to exchange the Muggle currency for
the wizarding sort. Then, he purchased a cake for Harry and a set of
robes for himself. He began to feel almost human again with his
rhythm of paid physical work, taking care of Buckbeak, hunting, and
writing. He still slept only in canine form, and therefore was not
subject to the nightmares he was certain he would have had had he
attempted to relax completely in his usual shape.However, odd snatches of news were
beginning to reach him. Remus mentioned that Dumbledore had pulled
Mad-Eye Moody from the depths of retirement to fill the Defense
Against the Dark Arts position. Assorted wizarding newspapers
mentioned cursed dustbins, Dark Marks, and attacks on Muggles that
seemed suspiciously magical. He tried to remind himself that the
world had not stopped when his life had been interrupted by Azkaban,
and that Lord Voldemort had not been considered a threat for many
years, but nonetheless, an odd fretfulness took up permanent
residence at the edge of his consciousness.His anxiety intensified with a letter
delivered by Hedwig. Harry had grown more familiar in his
correspondence over the summer, and this note was the longest he had
yet written. However, one paragraph thrown in with mock-carelessness
set Sirius into a fit of trembling:A weird thing happened this morning,
though. My scar hurt again. Last time that happened, it was because
Voldemort was at Hogwarts. But I don't reckon he can be anywhere
near me now, can he? Do you know if curse scars sometimes hurt years
afterward?Sirius groaned inwardly. He doubted
that Harry was telling him the entire truth; he must have been in a
considerable amount of pain to become frightened enough to write the
godfather he barely knew for advice. This must have been what
Dumbledore had meant when he had asked Sirius to keep him apprised of
the workings of Harry's mind.He had no right to remain in hiding
while his godson was in danger.He detained Hedwig and scribbled out
three hasty notes:Harry--I'm flying north immediately. This
news about your scar is the latest in a series of strange rumors that
have reached me here. If it hurts again, go straight to Dumbledore--
they're saying he's got Mad-Eye out of retirement, which means
he's reading the signs, even if no one else is.I'll be in touch soon. My best to
Ron and Hermione. Keep your eyes open, Harry.SiriusandProfessor Dumbledore:Harry tells me that his scar hurt
last night. He wanted to know if curse scars sometimes hurt for no
reason. I am flying north tonight.Sirius BlackandR--Harry's scar hurt. Coming north.--SHe regretfully burned the letters he
had received lest he lose them and accidentally incriminate someone
during a close call on his journey, and whistled for Buckbeak. There
was no time to lose."We're about to start a long
journey, Buckbeak," he told the hippogriff. "Sorry. But it's
for Harry." He bowed low, and the hippogriff returned the gesture,
as if in understanding of Sirius' feelings for Harry. Sirius
mounted the animal hastily. "Let's go."They flew almost without a break for
nearly a week, and while Sirius dared not mock his beast's
endurance, he clenched his fists and wished painfully for a wand and
the ability to Apparate.Hedwig intercepted them just as they
entered England. She flew gracefully beside Buckbeak as Sirius
scanned the letter.Dear Sirius,I reckon I just imagined my scar
hurting, I was half asleep when I wrote to you last time. There's
no point coming back, everything's fine here. Don't worry about
me, my head feels completely normal.HarrySirius began to laugh. He had always
been prone to laughing at inopportune moments (injuries, funerals,
murders), and if Buckbeak had cared to throw his rider from his back,
he could easily have done so."Remus is right. Your owner is a
lousy liar," he chuckled to the bird, which was glaring at him and
waiting for him to reply. "All right. I'm answering right now.
Don't be impatient. It's not easy to write on a flying
hippogriff, although I happen to be the world's leading expert."He fished quill, ink, and parchment
from the small bag in which he carried his few non-descript
possessions.Nice try, Harry.I'm back in the country and
well-hidden. I want you to keep me posted on everything that's
going on at Hogwarts. Don't use Hedwig, keep changing owls, and
don't worry about me, just watch out for yourself. Don't forget
what I said about your scar.SiriusWithin a day, Sirius actually had
managed to hide himself in an abandoned Muggle warehouse. He again
commenced taking small jobs of short duration and slipped into a
wizarding village nightly to steal copies of the Daily Prophet. 
Stealing food was not terribly difficult, either, and he managed to
keep Buckbeak well-concealed.Dumbledore repeated what Sirius already
knew; that Mad-Eye Moody had come to Hogwarts and that surely Harry
and the other students were safe. Remus, though, mentioned that
rumors were swirling that the Tri-Wizard Tournament was to be
re-instated.… I expect that the students will
be most excited. Some of them may know that the Tournament was
originally cancelled because of the high incidence of champion
deaths, but I'm sure that very few of them understand the ties that
the Tournament has to Dark Magic. Cheating was of course a
time-honored part of the tradition, and the cheating became more
dangerous and unethical as time passed. To make things worse, we know
that Wormtail is out there somewhere with the intent to rejoin the
Dark Lord. Finally, one of the schools set to participate in the
Tournament is almost certainly Durmstrang. The Head of Durmstrang is
none other than our old friend, Karkaroff. Durmstrang is no less
notorious for teaching its students Dark Arts now than it was twenty
years ago.It concerns me that the Hogwarts
students know none of this. The wizarding community of England has
buried its head in the sand ever since the fall of Lord Voldemort.
The adults have done their best to forget what they knew and saw and
have not passed their knowledge on to their children. What can we
expect from a society that places a taboo on the mere uttering of
Voldemort's name? The only children who know anything of the
Unforgivable Curses or the habits of Death Eaters are those who were
directly affected. While we know exactly who supported Lord
Voldemort, we refrain from admitting as much and so give them the
freedom to repeat history… I hope that the rumors are wrong, and
that Harry will have the good sense to stay far away from the
Tournament should it actually be held at Hogwarts…But it seemed that Harry's good sense
was irrelevant.Dear Sirius,You told me to keep you posted on
what's happening at Hogwarts, so here goes-- I don't know if
you've heard, but the Triwizard Tournament's happening this year
and on Sunday night I got picked as a fourth champion. I don't know
who put my name in the Goblet of Fire, because I didn't. The other
Hogwarts champion is Cedric Diggory, from Hufflepuff.Hope you're okay, and Buckbeak.--HarrySirius tossed his godson's letter to
the ground and did some creative swearing. His anger was directed not
at Harry but at the world in general. Harry himself was nothing short
of amazing. In fact, Harry's development into a young man had dealt
parenting a serious blow; Harry had grown up to be practically
perfect without having any parents at all. That Harry had bothered to
ask after Sirius and Buckbeak when his was the life in danger was
indicative of his character.There was no doubt in Sirius' mind
that whoever did know how Harry's name had found its way into the
Goblet wanted the last Potter to become the most recent Triwizard
Champion to die in the line of duty.Remus was right. It was dangerous for
Harry not to know any of the history of the first war against
Voldemort, but Sirius could hardly put the information Harry needed
in a letter. It had been bad enough for Remus, who was neither on the
run nor famous, to write vagaries in a letter to Sirius; Sirius
writing a more detailed letter to Harry could be disastrous. The only
thing to do was ask Harry to clear the Common Room of other students
and contact him through the fire. Hogwarts fires were not meant to
allow such contact from outside the school, but Mr. Padfoot, purveyor
of aids to magical mischief-makers, had long ago learned a thing or
two about manipulating Hogwarts' communications systems.Harry agreed, and on the appointed
night Sirius casually wandered into a deserted wizarding home that he
knew always stood empty at this hour. So concerned was Sirius about
the behavior of the Goblet of Fire that he forgot to be nervous about
the prospect of meeting his godson face-to-face for only the second
time since Harry's babyhood.Throwing powder and then his head into
the fire, Sirius blinked into the once-familiar Gryffindor Common
Room."Sirius-- how're you doing?"
asked Harry, true to form."Never mind me, how are you?""I'm--" Harry paused, and the
smile on his young face disappeared to be replaced by a cross between
stress and agony. "I'm-- you know I didn't put my name in the
Goblet, but no one believes me, and now everyone hates me. Well, not
everyone, a couple of the Gryffindors think its great that there's
a Gryffindor champion, but, well, I'd expect it from the
Slytherins, but the Hufflepuffs, they all love Cedric-- he's the
real champion-- because you know everyone says Hufflepuffs are thick
and duffers and squibs. They think I did it on purpose, and when I go
to class with them they won't speak to me, they glare at me, even
Professor Sprout does, she hates me now. Everyone has badges and
signs that say 'Potter Stinks' and people point at me and laugh
or try to trip me in the corridors, they try to dump food on me in
the Great Hall, they snicker and they tell jokes and talk about how
all I want is publicity and I'm a thief, and then Rita Skeeter
wrote an article. She had a quill that made things up, she told
everyone I cry over my parents and I don't even remember my parents
so I can't cry over them, and she said I was in love with Hermione
and it's not true, and so everyone's after Hermione, and it's
not fair that she's getting teased for being my friend and I don't
want anyone to hurt Hermione and she's the only one who'll have
anything to do with me because Ron doesn't believe me and
Hermione's probably going to hate me soon, too. Ron thinks I did it
on purpose and he's just jealous and Hermione says I should make up
with him but I don't want to make up with him because he started it
and if he's like the rest of the school and wants not to speak to
me and to have me dead, then that's fine, and I don't know why
he's jealous because I don't know why anyone would want the whole
school to hate him or why anyone would want to get killed or made fun
of, and I just want to be left alone, but no one will leave me alone,
and everyone cheats in this contest and everyone's getting together
to watch me fail and laugh when I do and I don't think I really
want to stay at Hogwarts. But they're getting ready anyway and I'm
magically bound to stay and now Hagrid's just shown me what's
coming in the first task and it's dragons, Sirius, and I'm a
goner."Harry had spoken almost without drawing
breath, and it was clear that he had been saving his words for days
if not weeks. Sirius wanted nothing more than to give his godson the
reassurance he needed, but time was short, and Harry had not yet had
the opportunity to get used to trusting Sirius. The back of Sirius'
mind took up the familiar chant of THIS IS ALL WORMTAIL'S FAULT,
but he forced those thoughts away as he looked at Harry's anxious
face."Dragons we can deal with, Harry,"
he began, but dissertations on a dragon's eyesight could wait.
Surely someone would be monitoring the task to make certain that
Harry did not burn to death, but no one was monitoring the Death
Eaters to make certain that Harry was not dragged to Voldemort's
lair. "We'll get to that in a minute-- I haven't got long here…
I've broken into a wizarding house to use the fire, but they could
be back at any time. There are things I need to warn you about.""What?" asked Harry. His face paled
further, and he began to look genuinely ill. Sirius wondered if there
was any possibility of yanking Harry through the fire alive without
Floo Powder and proceeding to lock him up in a tower where he would
be safe."Karkaroff," Sirius spat. "Harry,
he was a Death Eater." Sirius told his godson about Karkaroff's
past and about his suspicions as to why Harry's name had been
placed in the Goblet. But just as he was about to alleviate Harry's
fears about getting past a dragon, Harry raised a hand."Go! Go! There's someone coming!"Sirius went.He paced angrily about the edge of the
town in dog form for three days. At last, Daily Prophets began to
fall from the sky with news of the Triwizard Tournament. He caught
one in his mouth and bounded out of sight, but thanks to his
resemblance to a Grim, no one pursued him. He tore at the paper with
teeth and claws, and then, desperately, transformed to unfold the
paper and see the declaration that the youngest champion's
performance had been the best. Not long afterwards, the tiny owl
which he had sent to Ron arrived bearing a letter that must have
weighed nearly as much as the owl itself. It was full of praise for
the Firebolt and vivid descriptions of flying past a dragon.Sirius assumed that Harry's use of
Ron's owl meant that the boys had mended their fences. Nonetheless,
Sirius could not help feeling a small bit of anger toward Ron--
toward anyone who dared make Harry unhappy-- as well as a small bit
of irony that Harry had once again done better without parental
advice than he would have done with it.He sent Harry a letter of
congratulations and set about planning a way of obtaining a good,
godfatherly Christmas present now that he was certain Harry would see
Christmas. At last, he decided to steal a useful penknife with
attached knot- and lock-pickers that he rather liked himself. He knew
that Harry would not approve of a stolen Christmas present, but
decided that what Harry didn't know would not in this particular
case hurt him. He and Harry could wait a few years before discussing
situational ethics.He then sent a letter to Remus.
Inspired by Harry's description of the first task, he made note of
every twist, turn, and glance that stealing the knife had involved.The months which followed held the
potential to be relaxing. Apparently, Harry harbored no fears about
the second part of the Tournament, for he made no mention of it and
indeed stopped writing except to inquire after Sirius and Buckbeak's
well-being. But Sirius did not relax. He gave up his habit of
occasionally hiring himself out as a Muggle. His habits of shaving
and trying to keep his hair from matting were also discontinued.
There hardly seemed to be a point. Instead, he devoted the whole of
his time to scrounging Daily Prophets and waiting for the storm to
arrive.Arrive it did, in the form of a
convoluted story about the unholy trinity of Snape, Crouch, and
Mad-Eye Moody. Sirius was unable to report this information to
Dumbledore, and so wrote the aged Headmaster a letter requesting
permission to come nearer to Hogwarts. As soon as Dumbledore had
described the location of a cave in Hogsmeade, Sirius and Buckbeak
relocated and arranged a meeting with Harry, Ron, and Hermione.Padfoot scrambled down the steep
embankment to wait for the trio, and he smelled them before he saw
them. They had chicken. They had chicken and for that he liked them
even more than he had on the day that they had saved him from the
dementors.They came into sight looking much as
Sirius had remembered them. They were a bit taller, naturally, and
the bright sunlight emphasized sparkling eyes and shining hair. All
three had thrown their cloaks casually over their shoulders, and they
looked the picture of that which they were not: ordinary school
children."Hello, Sirius," said Harry.I have to remember to remind him not
to call me by name, Padfoot thought to himself. He wagged his
tail and led them up the mountainous path.Once inside the cave, Padfoot
transformed. Hermione threw herself at Buckbeak, to whom she was
apparently quite attached despite her dislike for flying, but Harry
stared at Sirius."Chicken," Sirius reminded his
godson. Obediently, the boy handed over the food. "Thanks. I've
been living off rats mostly. Can't steal too much food from
Hogsmeade; I'd draw attention to myself." He smiled at Harry, who
only forced a smile in return."What're you doing here, Sirius?"
Sounds more paternal than I do. How does he manage that?"Fulfilling my duty as a godfather,"
he answered at lightly as he could. "Don't worry about it, I'm
pretending to be a loveable stray." Harry still wore a patented
"I-am-not-amused" expression on his face. The expression had
surely been inherited from Lily, but Sirius deemed it best not to
mention as much for now. I suppose I have to try the truth without
any jokes. "I want to be on the spot. Your last letter… let's
just say things are getting fishier. I've been stealing the paper
every time someone throws one out, and by the looks of things, I'm
not the only one who's getting worried."Harry was not prepared to let up. "What
if they catch you? What if you're seen?"First of all, I'm not stupid, and
second of all, my life is worth nothing without yours. "You
three and Dumbledore are the only ones around here who know I'm an
Animagus."Harry did not look prepared to let up,
but Ron, who had been sorting through Sirius' collection of Daily
Prophets, distracted him with an article about Bartemius Crouch.
"They're making it sound like he's dying," Harry said
thoughtfully. "But he can't be that ill if he's managed to get
up here…""My brother's Crouch's personal
assistant. He says Crouch is suffering from overwork," Ron picked
up."He did look ill, the last time I saw
him up close," Harry added. "The night my name came out of the
Goblet…""Getting his comeuppance for sacking
Winky, isn't he?" Hermione spoke at last. Her voice held disdain
bordering on hatred for Crouch, and Sirius was reminded of how
thoroughly he liked Harry's second-best-friend.The next few moments were a flow of
information involving Crouch's house-elf, an empty seat in the Top
Box at the Quidditch World Cup, a stolen wand, Ludo Bagman and his
alleged affection for Harry, and Hermione's dislike for Crouch."Hermione, will you give it a rest
with the elf!" Ron snapped at last."She's got the measure of Crouch
better than you have, Ron," Sirius interrupted, trying not to sound
too harsh. "If you want to see what a man's like, take a good
look at how he treats his inferiors, not his equals." And this
concludes today's portion of godfatherly advice. "All these
absences of Barty Crouch's," Sirius mused aloud. "He goes to
the trouble of making sure his house-elf saves him a seat at the
Quidditch World Cup, but doesn't bother to turn up and watch. He
works very hard to reinstate the Triwizard Tournament, and then stops
coming to that too… It's not like Crouch." The bloody,
arrogant, heartless, stupid bastard! "If he's ever taken a
day off work because of illness before this, I'll eat Buckbeak.""D'you know Crouch, then?" Harry
asked keenly.Sirius dropped all pretense of
objectivity. "I know Crouch all right. He was the one who gave the
order for me to be sent to Azkaban-- without a trial."Not even Ron, the Ministry Brat, had
known of this. "You're kidding!" Harry exclaimed.Because it's so amusing. "No,
I'm not. Crouch used to be Head of the Department of Magical Law
Enforcement, didn't you know? He was tipped for the next Minister
of Magic. He's a great wizard, Barty Crouch, powerfully magical--
and power-hungry." The three young faces paled. Harry, Ron, and
Hermione obviously subscribed to the view that ambition meant Dark
tendencies. "Never a Voldemort supporter. No, Barty Crouch was
always very outspoken against the Dark Side. But a lot of people who
were against the Dark Side… well, you wouldn't understand…
you're too young…"Ron scowled. "That's what my Dad
said at the World Cup. Try us, why don't you?"As in the Shrieking Shack nearly a year
earlier, Sirius was reminded of himself as a teenager. "All right,
I'll try you…" He did his best to explain with words the
virtually indescribable atmosphere of the world before Voldemort's
first fall. The three students listened intently, and proved
themselves well worth trying. Still, Sirius wished that he could have
spoken about Quidditch and school dances with his godson and
political concerns with someone more likely to recognize real clues
for what they were rather than mention them accidentally. He rubbed
his eyes tiredly. "What time is it?""It's half past three," Hermione
informed him"You'd better get back to school.
Now, listen." Let's hope you're better at listening than I
used to be. "I don't want you lot sneaking out of school to
see me, all right? Just send notes to me. I still want to hear about
anything odd. But you're not to go leaving Hogwarts without
permission; it would be an ideal opportunity for someone to attack
you.""No one's tried to attack me so
far, except a dragon and a couple of grindylows," said Harry.Sure, now you remember your sense of
sarcasm. Where do you get off worrying about me and not yourself? Is
this some sort of inbred Potter trait? "I don't care. I'll
breathe freely again when this tournament's over, and that's not
until June. And don't forget, if you're talking about me among
yourselves, call me Snuffles, okay?"He walked them back to the village and
resumed scrounging papers and thinking troubled thoughts.If Snape really was associated with
Death Eaters, I can't imagine why Dumbledore allowed him in. It
would be like Mad-Eye to be paranoid about anything, but Crouch never
bothered looking for evidence. I suppose if Snape is under
Dumbledore's protection, he'd have to… If he's looking into
the sabotage of the Triwizard Tournament… or if he initiated the
Tournament with the intent of taking down someone in Hogwarts, no,
that's too far-fetched, but perhaps one of the other supporters…
can't imagine Ludo Bagman's got the brains, might just be
fascinated with Harry because he's James' son, might have played
against James, can't remember… someone's doing Dark Magic at a
high level, Bertha Jorkins was NEVER stupid, at least not that way…
is the Dark Magic even connected to the Tournament?... I can't see
Karkaroff going back, not after the way he turned on the Death
Eaters… not popular in Azkaban, that one… not Karkaroff, someone
else, but how does he know Snape…The thoughts refused to take an exact
shape in his mind. He wished again for someone off of whom to bounce
ideas, but he was trying to stay hidden in a fairly public place and
wanted to save any conspicuous correspondence for Harry:Dear Sirius,You aren't going to like this very
much.Sirius did not find this the most
comforting opening to a letter that he had ever come across.I was just called outside with the
other champions. They wanted to tell us about the final task. It's
to be a maze, and they claim it will be fun, but Hagrid is providing
some of the obstacles so I have my doubts. That isn't what you
aren't going to like very much.So it got worse?I expect you read or heard about the
article about Hermione and Krum and me. To be clear, Hermione and I
have NEVER dated. She's my friend, the same as Ron. I know you know
this, but some people I thought would have put more thought into
things have been horrible to Hermione. Ron's mother sent Ron and me
eggs for Easter and only a small one to Hermione, and you'd think
she'd know that if anyone fancies Hermione it's-- never mind. I'm
not getting to the point.Krum pulled me aside to talk about
Hermione-- wanted to know, like everyone else, if there's ever been
anything between us. We were wandering into the forest when we heard
a noise-- and it was Mr. Crouch! He looked awful, was talking like he
was mad, raving about his son and Ron's brother. He said things
about Voldemort and a mistake and me, and that he needed to warn
Dumbledore. I left Krum there with him and went to find Dumbledore,
but Snape slowed me down, and by the time we got back Krum was alone
and unconscious. This qualifies as something unusual,
but don't worry too much. Ron and Hermione and I are always
together and we're fine.HarryFurious, Sirius wrote the fastest
letter of his life.Harry-- what do you think you are
playing at, walking off into the forest with Viktor Krum? I want you
to swear, by return owl, that you are not going to go walking with
anyone else at night. There is somebody highly dangerous at Hogwarts.
It is clear to me that they wanted to stop Crouch from seeing
Dumbledore and you were probably feet away from them in the dark. You
could have been killed.Your name didn't get into the
Goblet of Fire by accident. If someone's trying to attack you,
they're on their last chance. Stay close to Ron and Hermione, do
not leave Gryffindor Tower after hours, and arm yourself for the
third task. Practice stunning and disarming. A few hexes wouldn't
go amiss, either. There's nothing you can do about Crouch. Keep
your head down and look after yourself. I'm waiting for your letter
giving me your word you won't stray out of bounds again.SiriusThe reply was swift.Sirius--I will do as you asked. You have my
word. Don't worry.--HarryDon't worry, indeed!Sirius wrote to Harry every day
thereafter. All thoughts of solving the mysteries of Crouch and
Bertha Jorkins, all memories of Azkaban, all fears of pushing Harry
to quickly to accept his godfather into his life, and even all plans
for vengeance against Pettigrew were forced from his mind. All that
mattered was Harry's safety, and while the letters did nothing to
protect him, they were better than nothing.The letters varied little from day to
day, as they shared a common set of phrases.I'm worried about you.Your safety is the most important
thing.Stay near Ron and Hermione.Stay within Dumbledore's
protection.Don't talk to anyone you don't
know well.Worry about the maze before you
worry about anything else. Take no risks.On the morning of the final task,
Sirius could not even connect his thoughts to write his usual letter
of warning. Instead, he sent a scrap of folded parchment that could
pass as a good-luck card and set out after the owl for Hogwarts. He
lay in Hagrid's pumpkin patch as inconspicuously as possible and
awaited the sound of screams.He had a long wait. Around noon,
Dumbledore himself strolled down to see him. "I see you're
already here," he said, his sharp eyes dancing across Padfoot's
body. "Don't transform. Ron's mother and brother are here to
support Harry, and the contest isn't until this evening. As soon as
it's over, I'll send him down to see you. All right?"Padfoot nodded, feeling everything in
the world other than "all right." He would have loved nothing
better than to stand up and pace the length of the pumpkin patch, but
doing so would have caught the attention of passersby.As the sun fell lower in the sky,
Padfoot grew more anxious, and each exhalation became a whine. Every
shout of every student who ran down to the Quidditch Pitch added to
the horror of the wait.By the time the screams and shouts of
the crowd turned to a collective gasp, Padfoot had stopped breathing
entirely.He's dead, he's dead, he's
dead. He didn't come to see me, so he must be dead, and something
made the crowd calm down so he must be dead. The last Potter…
James…When footsteps at last approached
Padfoot, they belonged not to Dumbledore but to McGonagall.
"Dumbledore says you're to come with me," she informed him. She
eyed him as he scrambled hastily to his feet and awaited her
direction. She looked him over, but, never one to ignore Dumbledore's
wishes, she led him to the Headmaster's office. He was not aware of
his claws clinking against the floor of the corridors or of any of
his surroundings. "He'll be with you shortly."TO TELL ME HARRY'S DEAD! I'M
SORRY, HARRY, I'M SORRY!He changed back into human form to
greet Dumbledore and thank him for his help before he served himself
to the dementors. A cool wave of understanding passed over him, a
wave of understanding he had felt just once before, on the day in
1981 when he had tracked down Peter Pettigrew with the intent of
avenging Harry's parents' deaths.But when the door was opened,
Dumbledore was accompanied by Harry. Sirius crossed the room in one
jump. "Harry, are you all right? I knew it-- I knew something like
this-- what happened?" Any relief Sirius had felt was short-lived.
Harry was a disheveled mess and one leg was not bearing his weight.
Sirius shook as he pulled out a chair and half-placed Harry in it.
The desire to do more was palpable, but he could not know the extent
of Harry's injuries, and his eyes… his eyes… "What happened?"
he repeated.It was Dumbledore who answered. "You
came closer than you would have hoped when you tried to analyze the
situation. Professor Moody was not Professor Moody; it was Barty
Crouch, the younger, under the influence of Polyjuice Potion. You
were not the first Azkaban escapee." Sirius nodded numbly, his
still shaking hands gripping the back of Harry's chair. "His
mother came to visit him, dying, and with Polyjuice Potion she took
his place. His father kept him confined, but as the years passed, he
gained strength and placed his father under the Imperius Curse. It
was he who conjured the Dark Mark at the World Cup. It was he who put
Harry's name in the Goblet with the intent of handing him to
Voldemort. The Cup at the end of the maze was a Portkey, and while
Harry came back alive, our other champion did not."As Dumbledore completed his brief
explanation of events, Fawkes the phoenix perched himself in Harry's
lap."'Lo, Fawkes," Harry whispered.
It was the first time Harry had spoken, and his voice sound
world-weary and raspy.Dumbledore crossed the room to look
Harry in the eye. "I need to know what happened after you touched
the Portkey in the maze, Harry."Hot ire rose in Sirius. His hand crept
from the back of the chair to Harry's shoulder which, while
thankfully warm, did not feel as if it belonged to a living thing.
"We can leave that till morning, can't we, Dumbledore? Let him
have a sleep. Let him rest." It was the very least Sirius could do
to keep Dumbledore from interrogating Harry just yet. James and Lily
ought to be here, comforting Harry. Harry ought to have grown up with
Sirius so that Sirius would have had the right to pull him into his
lap, and let him fall asleep, and take him home where he could be a
child instead of a part of Voldemort's insane plan for world
domination.Dumbledore ignored Sirius and directed
himself to Harry. "If I thought I could help you by putting you
into an enchanted sleep and allowing you to postpone the moment when
you would have to think about what has happened tonight, I would do
it. But I know better. Numbing the pain for a while will make it
worse when you finally feel it. You have shown bravery beyond
anything I could have expected of you. I ask you to demonstrate your
courage one more time. I ask you to tell us what happened."Harry took a deep breath and began
haltingly. "We-- we slammed into the ground and I asked where we
were, but Cedric just shook his head. We looked around, we were in a
graveyard by an old house. Cedric asked if I knew the Cup was a
Porkey, because we'd been telling each other things about the
Tournament all year, because everyone was cheating, but I said I
hadn't known. And he said we should take our wands out, and I was
really glad because-- because I didn't want to be the one to say
it. Then we saw someone coming, carrying something, and then my scar
exploded. I-- I-- dropped my wand and I almost passed out, but I
heard someone, Voldemort, say 'Kill the spare,' and someone else
yelled Avada Kedavra, and then Cedric was dead. Wormtail-- Wormtail
tied me to Tom Riddle's headstone. They threw this thing into the
cauldron-- bone of the father, Wormtail said, and then flesh of the
servant, cut off his own hand… and then blood of the enemy, and he
cut me…"Sirius swore aloud, though he had not
meant ever to swear before his godson, and gripped Harry's shoulder
more tightly. "Show us," commanded Dumbledore. Harry moved almost
painfully to draw up his sleeve."He cut me there. He said my blood
would make him stronger than someone else's. He said the protection
my-- my mother left in me-- he'd have it, too. And he was right--
he could touch me without hurting himself, he touched my face.""Very well," said Dumbledore.
"Voldemort has overcome that particular barrier. Harry, continue,
please.""He-- he explained about his parents,
and that the Death Eaters were his real family. They Apparated in a
circle and they fell on their knees and kissed his robes. He said
they should have come to him sooner. He said he was disappointed. He
said-- he didn't forgive them. He put the Cruciatus Curse on-- I
think it was Avery. And then he gave Wormtail a silver hand to repay
him for helping him rise again." Sirius felt his blood rise at the
repeated mention of Wormtail's name. "Then he went through the
other Death Eaters, asking them to do better… he said they should
have helped but he still had the power to possess other bodies… he
talked about Quirrell, and how Wormtail captured Bertha Jorkins so
they could use her information… he said a lot I can't really
remember and then he put the Cruciatus Curse on me…"Sirius tried his best to relax his grip
on Harry's shoulder as it occurred to him that he might be making
Harry's pain worse. But relaxing had been an impossibility for a
long while.Harry gallantly resumed his narration.
"Wormtail untied me and gave me my wand, Voldemort wanted to duel
with me, he did something to make me bow to him. And the Cruciatus
Curse again-- then he tried the Imperius Curse but that doesn't
work on me, and he yelled Avada Kedavra and I yelled Expeliarmus
because it's the only dueling spell I know-- the wands connected--"Harry's mouth moved uselessly a few
more times, but he was clearly unable to speak. Sirius inwardly
cursed Dumbledore for forcing Harry to relive this so quickly, for
good reason or not."Their wands connected?" he asked,
addressing himself to Dumbledore to give Harry a break. "Why?""Priori Incantantem," Dumbledore
muttered."The Reverse Spell effect?" Sirius
translated. He knew he had learned about it, once, probably the day
before he took his NEWTs. It was an obscure bit of magic."Exactly," said Dumbledore.
"Harry's wand and Voldemort's wand share cores." The
headmaster went on to explain that none other than Fawkes had donated
the cores of the wands. Somehow, Sirius was unsurprised."What happens when a wand meets its
brother?" he asked."They will not work properly against
each other. If, however, the owners of the wands force the wands to
do battle, a very rare effect will take place. One of the wands will
force the other to regurgitate the spells it had performed-- in
reverse. The most recent first… and then those which preceded it…
Which means that some form of Cedric must have reappeared."Harry nodded in confirmation."Diggory came back to life?" asked
Sirius, startled. He had always been told that no spell woke the
dead, but he really had not remembered much of the NEWTs by
the time he had gotten his results."No spell can reawaken the dead. All
that would have happened is a kind of reverse echo. A shadow of the
living Cedric would have emerged from the wand… am I correct,
Harry?"Harry's trembling intensified, and
Sirius again beat down the urge to pick him up as if he were much
younger than fourteen. You hardly want to add abject humiliation
to this, do you? You can't make things any better. "He spoke
to me," Harry's voice shook. "The ghost Cedric, or whatever he
was, spoke.""An echo," repeated Dumbledore,
"which retained Cedric's appearance and character. I am guessing
other such forms appeared… less recent victims of Voldemort's
wand…""And old man." Harry's voice was
thick with unshed tears. "Bertha Jorkins. And…"Harry trailed off, but Dumbledore
completed the phrase. "Your parents?""Yes." Harry was almost inaudible.
Sirius had never felt more helpless in his life, but Dumbledore
methodically continued the interrogation. "Ced-- Cedric told me to
hold on, and so did Bertha Jorkins. The old man… my-- my mother--"Lily. Sirius' hand slipped
limply and unwillingly from Harry's shoulder."She said my father was coming. She
said-- it-- said it would be all right--"Had Lily taken up lying in the
afterlife? The absurdity of the thought caused something to snap
inside Sirius, and the tears that Harry had been able to restrain
threatened to fill his eyes. He buried his face in his hands and drew
in a deep breath. Focus… Harry's here… help Harry…"My father said that when the spell
broke, they-- they-- would stay-- for just long enough-- for me to
get to the Portkey."Good plan, James. You're dead and
you protect him better than I do. I'm so sorry, Harry."And Cedric asked for me to take his
body to his paren…" Harry lost all ability to speak and Sirius
looked up as Dumbledore at last agreed to let Harry adjourn to the
hospital wing."Sirius, would you like to stay with
him?"It seemed odd that Dumbledore would
even ask. Sirius nodded, not yet trusting his voice, and transformed.The Weasleys and Hermione pounced upon
Harry when he arrived, and Padfoot felt a mix of deep gratitude and
petty jealousy toward them. Harry was dosed with sleeping potion, and
Padfoot sat with his head resting on Harry's cot. Hermione and Ron
temporarily tore their eyes from Harry to give the dog knowing,
sympathetic looks, and he wagged his tail once in response."Do you know that animal?" Mrs.
Weasley asked sharply."He's fine, Mum," said Ron in a
low, non-committal voice."I know that, or Dumbledore wouldn't
have let him stay.""Harry's very fond of him,"
Hermione jumped in, her voice more convincing than Ron's had been.
"And he's very protective of Harry. We met him in Hogsmeade, you
know, and it just makes Harry… safer when he's here."Mrs. Weasley seemed to accept the
explanation, and they waited together in complete silence from then
on.The silence was broken by the arrival
of Cornelius Fudge, Minerva McGonagall, and, to Padfoot's disgust,
Severus Snape. Snape, for the first time in memory, lost his position
at the top of Padfoot's list of people he did not like when Fudge
revealed that he had had Crouch's soul removed and questioned
Harry's sanity.Padfoot growled. Fudge ignored him.
"You are prepared to believe that Lord Voldemort has returned on
the word of a lunatic murderer and a boy who… well…""You've been reading Rita Skeeter,
Mr. Fudge," said Harry quietly. Padfoot had not realized the boy
had awakened. But nothing Harry and Dumbledore said would convince
Fudge that Voldemort had risen.And then Snape strode forward and
pulled up the sleeve of his robe. Padfoot stood up out of reflex as
Snape spoke. "There! There. The Dark Mark." He was a Death
Eater! But I never heard a word… "It is not as clear as it
was an hour or so ago, when it burned black, but you can still see
it. Every Death Eater had the sign burned into him by the Dark Lord.
It was a means of distinguishing one another, and his means of
summoning us to him." The things I don't know! "This
Mark has been growing clearer all year…"Padfoot was in shock, and Fudge must
have been as well, because he stormed from the room accusing Snape of
playing games when he should have realized that Snape had no sense of
humor. Dumbledore proceeded to give orders to the others, and Padfoot
had settled down to stare at Snape and reconsider him when Dumbledore
looked him in the eye. "Resume your usual form."Mrs. Weasley screamed. "Sirius
Black!" I suppose I'm still on the recognizable side."Mum, shut up!" Ron yelled. "It's
okay!"Sirius could not contemplate what Ron's
mother might do to punish her youngest son because he was busy
glaring at Snape, who was busy pretending righteous outrage."It is time," Sirius heard
Dumbledore say through the haze of his glare, "for the two of you
to lay aside your old differences and trust each other." And
perhaps I'll also start trusting Wormtail to look after Harry!
"I will settle in the short term for a lack of open hostility."
That's a more likely goal for the long-term, that. "You
are on the same side now. Time is short, and unless the few of us who
know the truth stand united, there is no hope for any of us."Sirius, careful to move no more quickly
than Snape, reached out and brushed his hand against the other man's.
He vowed to cleanse his hand with boiling oil at the soonest possible
opportunity."That will do to be going on with,"
Dumbledore continued. "Now I have work for each of you. Fudge's
attitude, though not unexpected, changes everything. Sirius, I need
you to set off at once. You are to alert Remus Lupin, Arabella Figg,
Mundungus Fletcher-- the old crowd. Lie low at Lupin's for a while;
I will contact you there.""But--" Harry put in.Sirius turned to his godson. Harry knew
that there was no way a convicted criminal could remain for too long
a time at Hogwarts. Harry further had the support of more people than
he knew what to do with, considering that he thought all affection
and fussing to be smothering and embarrassing. The best thing Sirius
could do for Harry was follow Dumbledore's orders. He was of no
good to Harry now-- it seemed that Mrs. Weasley had a better chance
of helping him. "You'll see me very soon. I promise you. But I
must do what I can, you understand, don't you?""Yeah," said Harry. "Yeah, of
course I do." Sirius briefly took Harry's hand-- surely this
simple gesture was not enough to set off Harry's fourteen-year-old
anti-fussing alarms-- and left swiftly.He bounded from the castle and ran in
dog form down the familiar path to Hogsmeade. The hike to his
cavernous hiding place had never seemed so steep. Changing back, he
half-shouted "Buckbeak!" He barely bothered to bow, but the
hippogriff accepted his offering. A year of co-habitation had
convinced Buckbeak to grant his fellow fugitive some leeway. "We're
going to Surrey. Little Whinging. And we're going now, before we
lose the darkness."He led Buckbeak from the cave and then
mounted the animal, glad to be riding and not running. "I know
we're doing something for Harry now," he told the animal as they
took off, "but it doesn't feel like it. I wish… I almost wish I
could have hugged him. I just want to take him home. But he has
people he trusts more than me, and I don't have a home to take him
to."They flew almost halfway to their
destination before the bright sky forced them to stop. "We'd do
better if I had a wand," Sirius grumbled, but Buckbeak gave him a
look of obvious disagreement. "All right, I know you're doing all
the work." Pleased with this admission, Buckbeak lay down to sleep.
Sirius was unable to join him; he was in fact unable to do anything
but remember the pain on Harry's face. "I'm a hell of a good
godfather," he told himself sarcastically. "And perhaps I'll
stop talking out loud now as I don't want to be caught before Harry
turns fifteen."The next night took them to the house
from which Arabella Figg had reported on Harry's growth during the
long years before the boy started Hogwarts.Sirius dismounted Buckbeak and promptly
had to grab onto him for support. He had neither eaten nor slept
since before the Third Task, and now he was dizzy and sore from long
hours of riding. He looked around the quiet street, but no one had
noticed the commotion.He decided that he had best ring the
doorbell. Then he decided that he had best ring the doorbell many,
many times to ensure that Arabella would arise. He heard footsteps on
stairs, and then the door opened."Who do you think you are, leaning
on-- Sirius Black!" She jumped back in alarm, but Sirius did not
feel the need to be delicate in his explanations."Dumbledore sent me to speak to you."She stepped backwards once more. "He--
he contacted me and said not to be alarmed.""Then perhaps you should take his
word for it.""Of-- of course. Won't you come
in?" She looked reluctant, and he felt reluctant. He was no longer
used to the insides of houses, and this one smelled of cats and
cabbage."I need to hide my hippogriff." He
gestured at Buckbeak.She looked around anxiously. "Bring
him inside, too."Sirius shrugged. It seemed the only
solution in a densely populated Muggle neighborhood. "Come on,
Buckbeak." The hippogriff froze. He had not likely been invited
inside a house before. Or perhaps he has. One never does know with
Hagrid. Perhaps he doesn't like cabbage… "Come along,"
Sirius repeated."Yes," Arabella urged the great
beast. "Come in, visit Smokey and Chester and Spike."Sirius briefly flicked his eyes from
Buckbeak to Arabella. "Your cats?""Yes," she said proudly. Once the
hippogriff was inside, he lay down contentedly on the living room
floor. Sirius merely glanced about, wondering how much time Harry had
spent in this very room as a young boy. He felt a familiar lance of
jealousy, and an added jolt of anger. I can't imagine Arabella
did much to make Harry's visits here more pleasant than living with
his miserable relatives. She had also been scarred by the last
war, he knew. Everyone who had been close to Dumbledore had been
hurt, but everyone accepted the hurt as mitigated by the results of
the war."Get your rest, Buckbeak," Sirius
said, more comfortable talking to the familiar hippogriff than the
unfamiliar human. "We're leaving tonight.""Tonight?" asked Arabella. "Don't
you need more time to take care of yourself?""I'd never impose myself on you.""It's not--""What do you know about the Triwizard
Tournament?""Very little. Dumbledore has sent me
messages, but I don't subscribe to the Daily Prophet-- it would be
too suspicious around here-- and I like living as a Muggle."Sirius nodded and steeled himself for a
detailed explanation. "Things went badly, to say the least…""I see why Dumbledore had to send
someone to speak to me in person," she said wryly as she wandered
into her kitchen and returned with food for both Sirius and Buckbeak.
Sirius was most of the way through his meal before he realized that
it was quite stale. When he did realize it, he did not care. "Are
you certain that you need to leave tonight?" Arabella asked when he
had finished."Yes. A whole list of people to speak
to-- the old crowd.""Do you want me to speak to some of
them for you? It would speed things along."Sirius nodded. "Yes, thank you."
They divided up the list over cups of tea, and Sirius felt his
initial anger at the old woman fading. It was not her fault that she
had watched Harry grow up and he had not. Harry. The sooner
this task was completed, the sooner Sirius would see Harry. If he had
delayed, he might have visited Harry while informing Arabella of the
problems, but time was of the utmost importance, and so he had
arrived here before Harry had even left Hogwarts. In a way, it was
comforting to Sirius to breathe the air Harry had breathed and drink
from a teacup he might have touched.You're obsessed, Black. But it's
not a bad obsession. Sirius was given a bedroom in which to
sleep the day away, but as soon as Arabella left he turned himself
into a dog and curled up on the floor. He was not going to risk
suffering a human night terror in the home of a woman he barely knew.
Sleeping as a human was unfamiliar and left him feeling defenseless.Arabella woke him at dusk and sent him
on his way. It was a hard journey to Mundungus, but the results were
much the same. Mundungus agreed to help Dumbledore in any way that he
could.And then Sirius was on his way to
Remus. Neither Arabella nor Mundungus had known Remus' exact
address, and so Sirius left Buckbeak tethered in a convenient cave
and went searching in dog form. The travel was harder than he had
expected; he was as worn as he had been since escaping Azkabam.
I'm going to collapse as soon as I get to his house, he thought
ruefully. Perhaps it would have been better to let Arabella or
Mundungus do more for him. He did not want to embarrass himself in
front of Remus… he missed Remus… but he was nervous… and then a
scent caught his animal nose.I'm here.He could only hope that this meeting
with Remus would be better than his last.That there was hope at all was at least
a start.The End(To see Sirius meet up with Remus,
go on to Innocence Lost and Found. You can find it here at
ff.n on my author page. It's better than its title—and yes, I
know that isn't saying much.)Answer to comment from review:Too many authors have had
Dumbledore giving Remus the job offer the day after the full moon.
I'm still trying to see the sense in that.I can't see it happening any other
way. Firstly, Remus is easiest to find on the day after a full moon.
There are a limited number of places he could be. Secondly, he's
easier to argue with when he's exhausted. It's not that you'd
win an argument with him you'd normally lose, but you might win an
argument faster than you usually would. Wolfsbane Potion is probably
a more powerful bribe right after a transformation than when a
transformation is weeks away. Thirdly, if Dumbledore goes to see him
the morning after a transformation, he "just happens to be there"
to take care of him. Fourthly, in this case, Dumbledore wants to be
the one to tell him that Sirius broke out of Azkaban, and I firmly
believe that Sirius did that when the moon was full or nearly full
(because his big advantage over dementors is that he can see and they
can't, and because full moons are indirectly connected to his sense
of dog/self/reality).Note of Revision: I reposted
this story in October 2007, 6 years after the original writing (this
was written when there were only 4 books in the series). As you can
see, I did not make it canon-compliant; I mostly improved the
formatting. I'm surprisingly fond of my plotless wonder here 6
years later; my fifth year trilogy makes me want to poke my own eyes
out. Thank you to everyone who has
reviewed over the years.

