
Harry Potter and the Chair of SeolfarDedicated toAlex, Ruth and Katy
(or Al, Egg and Lizzy)I wrote this story for my little sisters about a year ago and through
technical problems I haven't had chance to publish it. It goes between
books 4 and 5 and although there are a few continuity errors (naturally it
was written before OotP) it still fits in alright. I hope the PG rating is
ok, I don't think it is any more scary than say book 4.Disclaimer- I don't own any of the characters, that's JK, but I do have
some claim to Professor Jenai, and Lizzy Ferkell.Please read and review





--------




Chapter 1 Without HopeMany years ago..It was a crisp autumnal day with the frost lacing the world with a white
sparkle, while the sun shone weakly through the white sky. The leaves were
falling in an occasional cascade of copper brilliance. A small house lay on
the edge of a large forest; leaves piled high at the walls. Smoke snaked up
from the chimney. Inside, in a dimly lit room lay a fair-haired woman on a
bed. She looked pale, and exhausted, but her blue eyes were focused
lovingly on a small child cradled in her arms. The child had startling blue
eyes, and a dark crop of black hair. Beside her, stood a plump woman
holding another child. Her eyes sparkled as she rocked the tiny baby,
"Twins, sister. Twin boys. Let me just get another blanket for him. Like
two peas in a pod. Congratulations. You got names for them?"
"Richard, and Robert. After father and grandfather." She replied, stroking
the sleeping infant by her side. Her sister went out to a small side room,
still holding the second smiling twin.
Just then, there was a loud knock on the door and a tall black-clothed man
entered and smiled. He wore a long, dark cloak that swept the floor. He
quickly went to the bedside and reached out to hold his son.
"Robert and." whispered his mother, she tried to go on, but was too tired.
"Hush dear," her husband said, his dark eyes just gazed adoringly at his
son. He didn't believe that there was a more beautiful thing in the whole
world. Those that knew him would not have believed the stern man could ever
smile or look so happy. Behind him a strange man looked over the happy
couple.
The father looked at his wife and then back at his son. He smiled widely,
and then reached over to kiss his wife. She smiled back, and then fell back
on the piled pillows that surrounded her. She had a beautiful face, with
pale soft skin, a small nose, and red, exotic looking lips. Her eyes closed
and she slept. The father tucked the baby next to his sleeping wife and
walked quietly through to another room, where the strange man was now
sitting, shutting the door gently behind him. The strange man was old with
a grey beard that stretched out over his purple robes. He was wearing a
maroon cloak and emerald green boots, but not the sort you would buy in a
shop in town. They were made of dragons hide, for this elderly man was a
wizard. And not just any wizard. His name was Albus Dumbledore and he was
the head teacher at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, which was
in his opinion the best school of wizardry in the whole of the world. But
then he was rather biased.
"Congratulations" smiled Dumbledore, "A fine son, he has his mother's eyes,
and your face. I can see him becoming a great wizard, like his father".
"Maybe" replied the proud father, "but I hope he doesn't make the same
mistakes as I have done, what I did was wrong, I see that now, and if there
is anything I can do to make amends." Dumbledore interrupted him gently,
"The Ministry of Magic will decide, but you needn't worry about your son.
He is innocent. You will be able to teach him the way he should go, and
with a mother like Shona, he will be the luckiest boy in England. I hope
there will be many more to c."
 A sharp, terrible scream interrupted their happy conversation.
"Shona!" the father shouted. He threw open the door. The window was open
and on the bed lay Shona, her arm lying loosely over the side of the bed.
Her eyes stared unseeingly at the cracked ceiling. They both rushed to her
side. In her arms lay the tiny baby also dead.
"Dead," said Dumbledore quietly. He took a note from her outstretched hand.
He read in her own blood, I will avenge those who betray me. Those you love will suffer for you Lord VoldemortThe father fell to his knees. Dumbledore rushed to the other door. He
opened it. Inside slumped on the ground was Shona's sister. Dumbledore bent
over her lifeless body and stroked her cheek. Her mouth was open in a
silent scream of horror. Her wand was still in her outstretched hand.
Dumbledore returned wretchedly to the bedroom. He looked upon the terrible
scene, his heart anguished. He left the room, leaving behind the devastated
husband, his face buried in the chest of his murdered wife.
Outside in the dim, green light that streamed through the small window,
Dumbledore looked older. The bright sparkle had gone from his eyes and he
looked like an old man, although he was not that aged in years. He tapped
his wand once and shortly an owl appeared through a small window, and sat
on his shoulder. He quickly wrote a note, tied it to the leg of the owl,
which looked as if he was used to such things, and then gave the owl a
whispered message. Then Dumbledore let his head fall into his hands and
waited.
Eventually the man emerged form the bedroom, as the setting sun was filling
the room with a bloody gold. The smiling happy man had died. Instead was a
man existing without hope.





--------




Chapter 2 A Taxi RideHarry awoke. He was in his bed at the Dursley's house, as he knew he would
be. So why then did he feel so odd? Then it came back to him.the dream.
He'd been having this dream for the past week. It was always the same. He
could see a boy. He was tall, with very dark hair, and piercing blue
eyes.but he was tied up.tied to a tall silver chair, in a dark room. Harry
felt peculiar.there was something strangely familiar about this boy. He
reminded him of someone, but he couldn't quite work out who. You couldn't
usually remember dreams that clearly, but he could remember every detail of
this one. Right down to the smell of sea salt in the room. He had stood in
that room for what seemed all night, but hadn't spoken. The boy had watched
Harry never smiling, and never talking, just watching Harry
expressionlessly.
Harry turned over and glared at his alarm clock. Then he sat bolt upright.
It was his last day at the Dursleys. Tomorrow he was going to the Weasley's
house and together with Ron they would visit Diagon Alley and get their new
schoolbooks. The list of new things that he needed had arrived yesterday by
a rather small and plump owl. He quickly got dressed; the Dursleys didn't
bother to heat his room. A waste of money his Uncle said. He put on his
normal muggle clothes, a pair of jeans that were way too big. They had like
most of Harry's clothes once belonged to his enormous cousin. His T-shirt
looked like a girl's nightdress, but he hid it under a woolly green jumper
that had a picture of an Hungarian Horntail on it. This was from Mrs
Weasley, his best friend's mother, who sent him one every year. It was the
only thing that his aunt and uncle permitted him to wear that was vaguely
connected to Harry's usual occupation as a trainee wizard at Hogwart's
school of magic. Most people would have scoffed at this hand knitted
jumper, but to Harry it was precious. He rarely got proper birthday
presents. A typical present from the Dursleys consisted of a second pair of
socks or a coat hanger, if they remembered at all. His usual black robes
and hat were locked in his wardrobe. At least, thought Harry gratefully
they didn't lock up his books this time. What with Sirius, his godfather
who everyone but Harry, Dumbledore, Hermione and Ron thought was a serial
murderer and the fact that Harry could now stand up for himself, even if he
wasn't allowed to do magic out of school, he could now get more or less
what he needed. Although life was still far from fun with the Dursleys,
they left Harry well alone, as they thought him a bad influence on their
spoilt son Dudley. This summer they had made him stay in his bedroom, and
wouldn't even let him join them for meals. Aunt Petunia left a very small
portion of curried chicken, or what ever they were having outside Harry's
door. She rarely told him that it was there, so more often than not it was
stone cold when Harry got to eat it. The portions were tiny and sometimes
the plate was empty because Dudley had felt that his portion was not
sufficient so had finished off Harry's as well. The Dursleys hadn't
forgiven Harry for the destruction of their living room last summer, or
blowing up his aunt's sister the summer before that. More than once,
Harry's roast chicken had been laced with vinegar or his pizza was swimming
in water. Harry was sure that Dudley was behind it, but when he'd ventured
downstairs one day to complain to Uncle Vernon, Uncle Vernon had got Dudley
to chase Harry back into his room swinging his Smeltings stick.
Harry decided that he would finish his essay on the predictions for the
next millennium by examining the stars in the Milky Way. He needed to write
another 10 inches of parchment. He studied his books, Unfogging the Future
Edition 2 and Exploring the Galaxy: A Students Guide to Interpreting the
Stars. They seemed to say that there would be a dark three-legged monster
that would attack some purple spotted toad next Wednesday. Harry didn't
think this sounded too likely, so he decided to leave it until he met up
with Ron and Hermione tomorrow. Even if they didn't know the answer he and
Ron were sure that they would have fun making it up, even if Hermione
disapproved. Harry decided that it was time for breakfast, however
breakfast with the Dursleys was never fun. Occasionally a half-eaten piece
of cold bacon was left outside the door, but usually a stale piece of bread
was his breakfast, as far as the Dursleys were concerned. However Harry did
not starve. He sneaked downstairs, while the rest of the household was
sleeping and took three pieces of bread and made himself a quick jam
sandwich carefully gathering all the crumbs off the sideboard. He knew he
would not see the Dursleys for the rest of the day. For dinner and tea he
had enough stocked up in his room that his friends had sent him by owl,
knowing that the Dursley's usually starved him. Every other day Mrs Weasley
sent a large basket of freshly baked bread, biscuits and cakes. Harry was
glad that the Dursleys and Dudley in particular knew nothing of this
arrangement, or he knew it would be confiscated and given to Dudley, who
even with his recent diet was now the size of an adolescent hippopotamus,
with a mouth to match. Harry crept back upstairs, carefully avoiding the
creaky bottom stair. In his room he crossed off the final square on the
table he'd made which was hung on the wardrobe. This was the last day with
the Dursleys until the next summer holidays. He had butterflies in his
stomach with excitement. Just then Errol, the Weasley's owl flew through
the window. He was carrying a bulky letter. Harry tore it off Errol's leg
and Errol flopped exhausted onto Harry's bed. The letter said,Hi Harry,How's it going. We can't wait to meet up with you again. Are you sure you
can still get here safely? Dad can't wait to hear about you riding in a
Taxi. He thinks it some kind of broom. Mum's going up the wall at the
moment we've just had some men fixing us an anti-muggle device and they've
had to come back twice to fix it because it wasn't working properly. None
of us could get in the house, we had to camp in the garden for a night!
Have you heard from Sirius recently? Oh and can you please send Hedwig back
with the reply.
Errol seems to be even weaker than usual, and Pig has a sprained wing- he
flew into the window. See you soon
RonHarry had decided that it would be safer for all concerned if he got a taxi
to Ottery St Catchpole where Ron lived. His grate wasn't hooked up to the
Flu Network, and after last year's accident, where Dudley had eaten ton
tongue toffee and the Dursley's front room wall had been smashed to pieces
there was no way that Harry was going to risk it again. He would take a
taxi to Ron's village and then walk up to the Weasley's wonderful house
called The Burrow. He thought of Ron's brothers, and the fun they'd had
together over the last few years. He was looking forward to seeing Mrs
Weasley again, particularly her brilliant cooking.
He spent the rest of the day finishing his holiday homework, which was to
research into the Great Wizard Duel of 308 and completing another five
inches of his divination essay. Then ignoring Dudley's taunts from outside
his door, he rolled over and reread Flying with Cannons, a book about Ron's
favourite Quidditch team.That night Harry dreamed again. This time as soon as he shut his eyes the
boy was sitting there waiting for him. Harry seemed to be trapped in there
with him. His eyes explored the room. It was a black, dark cellar, with
slimy brick walls, and an old fashioned door. He could smell the sea salt
clearly. The boy was dressed in muggle clothes, which struck Harry as odd,
he was sure that the boy should be a wizard. Then he saw the doorknob
turning, and the scar on his forehead exploded with pain.
Harry woke up sweating in his bed, moaning with pain. He knew this was not
a good sign. In the past the pain had been connected with activities of his
worst enemy- Lord Voldemort. Lord Voldemort was a wizard, but on the dark
side. He and Harry had first met when Harry was one, when he had killed
both Harry's parents. Somehow he, a baby, not even able to talk, had
survived, and Voldemort had fled, weakened to a fraction of his power.
Harry had been sent to live with his aunt and uncle, muggles, who hated
anything to do with magic. Harry had grown up, not even knowing that he was
a wizard, until his eleventh birthday when he had received a letter from
Hogwarts. He was now returning as a fifth year, and was looking forward to
it very much even if he had to take his OWLs this year. Ordinary Wizarding
Levels were qualifications that wizards took instead of muggle GCSEs.
Harry lay on his bed feeling tired out as if had had no sleep. It was too
early for him to get up, but he knew that any more sleep that night would
be impossible. Outside in Privet Drive, the streetlights were illuminating
his bedroom with a spooky orange glow. He went to the window and looked
out. Outside in the monochrome environment everything was quiet. The drive
looked as it always did, nothing unusual here, thank you very much. Except
there was something a bit unusual. There was something lurking in the hedge
opposite the Dursley's house. Harry couldn't quite work out what it was. It
appeared to be small, but it was too big to be a cat. Harry was just about
to look at it again when it disappeared. Perhaps I'm still dreaming thought
Harry. Instead of the futile attempts to get to sleep he decided to pack
everything up. He slipped downstairs to the living room where he knew the
key was kept to wardrobe and opened it. His black robes were hung up neatly
and Harry felt a thrill of excitement as he thought about wearing them
again. Then he carefully put his wizarding clothes in the trunk along with
his books. He also slipped in the invisibility cloak, the only thing his
parents had left him, apart from a large pile of money stored in the wizard
bank Gringotts. He carefully took the most precious book he owned off his
bookshelf and sat on his bed staring at the deep red front cover. The words
Photo Album, were glowing a faint golden colour. He opened it gently.
Inside were pictures of his parents. It had been a present from Hagrid the
gamekeeper at Hogwarts. Inside his parents smiled out at him and in some
pictures waved. Wizard photos are not like muggle photos, because the
people move. One picture took up the whole page. His mother and father were
kissing on a sandy beach, as the waves lapped up to their bare feet, and
the wind blew out his mother's hair behind her. Tall palms swayed
gracefully behind them. They withdrew from the kiss, and smiled at Harry.
He could almost smell the sea. At once Harry felt a deep pang of sadness
and closed the book quickly, his heart aching. He placed it carefully in
the trunk with the other books. He put his quills, and the collection of
Chocolate Frog Cards he had collected. At the front a tall wizard with a
long grey beard was studying a book. Harry smiled. He was looking forward
to seeing Professor Dumbledore again. Harry then checked his room, and
beneath the floorboards for anything he might have forgotten, and then
taking his wand from its hallowed position on his desk he slipped it into
his pocket. Then he crept downstairs and phoned the taxi company, and asked
them to pick him up as soon as possible. He was going to go as soon as they
could. He knew the Dursleys wouldn't mind. The disembodied voice on the
phone told him that they would arrive within ten minutes. Harry quickly
scrawled a note to the Dursleys and left it on the dining room table. He
then pulled his trunk downstairs, returned the key to its drawer and
returned for Hedwig's cage. Eventually the taxi turned up, and the driver
did a double take seeing a large snowy white owl in a cage,
"Isn't that against RSPCA regulations?" he asked suspiciously. Harry got
into the taxi, and then spent the next twenty minutes making up a story
about how they had found this owl with an injured leg while out in the
country, and had nursed it back to health (after getting the RSPCA's advice
of course!). On hearing this Hedwig started hopping round the cage a bit
and looking pained. This together with Harry's story must have been
convincing because the driver looked suitably impressed. Harry settled back
with relief. They spent most of the rest of the journey in silence, with
Harry watching the countryside pass his window.By the time the taxi reached Ottery St Catchpole it was after midday, and
Harry was ravenous. "Where do you want dropping?" the driver suddenly
asked. Harry rapidly thought. He knew that the Weasleys lived in Ottery St
Catchpole, but he only knew roughly where their house was, he suddenly
began to feel worried.
"Oh just in the centre," Harry replied. Last time he had found the
Weasleys' house he had been very tired after the Quidditch World Cup. He'd
just followed Mr Weasley, not really noticing where they were going. Harry
remembered the note about the new anti-muggle security device that they'd
had installed which meant that muggles couldn't find the Weasley house. How
was he going to find it, if muggles couldn't see it? A short while later
they arrived in the centre of Ottery St Catchpole. It consisted of an
ancient church and a peeling post office, and a few scattered houses.
This'll be fine," said Harry nervously. The driver raised his eyebrows.
"You know where you're going don't ya?"
"Yes, my friend will be meeting me here"
"You sure?"
"Yes, Yes we're just a bit early that's all, I'll wait,"
"I think I better stay until some one comes," persisted the driver. Harry
could just imagine his face if the Weasleys in their patched multi-coloured
cloaks and robes turned up.
"Look, I'll be fine," Harry said rather more crossly than he meant. The
driver glared at him and then quickly unloaded the trunk and cage, and
drove off, muttering about impudent children.
Harry pulled his trunk up the road. A car screeched past him, honking its
horn. Harry turned to see three children in the back seat staring with
their mouths open at Hedwig and his old fashioned trunk. He found the
turning to the Weasleys' house. Panting and puffing, he dragged the trunk
up the dirt track. He was sure the house was just round the next bend. With
one last pant of effort, he collapsed in front of the Weasleys' house, or
rather where the Weasleys' house should be. it wasn't there. There was just
a gate, behind which was a field of rippling golden wheat. Harry looked
around desperately, what was he supposed to do, had the Weasleys moved
without telling him? He got his wand out and tapped the gate, but nothing
seemed to happen. He threw open his trunk and took out two packets of
chocolate frogs. He ate one and stuffed the other in his pocket. He then
let Hedwig out and she flew softly overhead as he ran back down to the
village of Ottery St Catchpole and looked again at the scattered buildings.
None of them looked remotely like the Weasley's house. He suddenly had a
horrible thought. What if the new anti-muggle device made the Weasley's
house look like a normal house, like Hogwarts looked like a ruined castle,
he would never be able to find it. Or perhaps it just made the house
invisible and you could only get there by tapping the third brick on your
left like Diagon Alley. Harry then plucked up courage. He'd have to do
something, he couldn't just sleep outside. He walked towards the nearest
muggle house and tapped lightly on the door. A harassed young woman came to
it, a bawling baby in her arms,
"Excuse me do you know where the Weasleys live?" he asked politely.
"Weasels, Don't know any weasels." The baby bawled louder, Harry had to
raise his voice to be heard,
"Weasleys. They have six sons, and a daughter"
"Maybe, I don't now everyone 'ere"
"They may seem a little strange to you," Harry said in desperation.
"Oi, you're bein' rude" and the woman closed the door firmly in his face.
Harry walked miserably back down the concrete path, kicking a loose stone,
and wondering what he was going to do. However he was still hungry, and
retrieved a packet of chocolate frogs from his pocket. They'd melted
slightly, but Harry was past caring. Panic was starting to build. He sat on
the village green, wondering if his trunk was alright under the hedge. He
ate the frogs enjoying their sweetness, and wondering what to do next.
Hedwig landed close to Harry, and seemed to be agitated. She was flapping
up and down and giving little hoots. Harry stared at her. She was usually
so well behaved, why was she disturbing him as he was trying to think. Then
he realised. He dived into his bag, and pulled out a scroll and parchment,
and wrote,Ron Help, I'm in Ottery St Catchpole, sitting where your house should be,
and I don't know how to get to your house, Please hurry,
HarryThen he tied the note to Hedwig's leg, and sat back down on the damp grass.
Across the green he noticed the curtains twitching, and the silhouette of a
person watching him. Well he'd given them something to gossip about anyway
thought Harry bitterly. He walked slowly back to his trunk, and found some
stale pastries, and chewed on them slowly. It was only five minutes later
that Hedwig returned. Harry grabbed her leg and tore the reply off.Harry, I'm sorry I forgot to tell you what to do, walk up the road a little
and you'll see a bench. Sit on it, and whisper "Revelum husian Weasley" and
the house should appear opposite you,
See you soon
RonHarry grabbed hold of his trunk and yanked it along the road with Hedwig's
cage balanced on top, and Hedwig circling high above him, hooting happily.
The trunk was very awkward to drag along further up the bumpy country road
and then up a dirt track. He was very relieved when he eventually saw the
green bench in front of him. It was an odd looking bench, especially as it
seemed to be in the middle of nowhere. It was made of iron and the seat was
made of just one large bent maple leaf. Harry with a last struggle dragged
the trunk up to the bench and flopped onto it, breathless. Eventually he
had gained enough strength to put it on the bench with him and Hedwig
joined him gently pinching his ear. Harry stroked her snowy white back and
closed his eyes before whispering
"Revelum husian Weasley".





--------




Chapter 3 Diagon alley revisitedHarry opened his eyes. In front of him, just across the road was the
Weasley's house. In front of it Mrs Weasley and Ginny were standing waving.
Ron was running towards him.
"You took your time didn't you," Ron yelled. He dashed over and helped drag
the trunk towards the house.
"Welcome Harry," gently said Mrs Weasley, who was looking at Harry's scar
with a trace of sadness. Harry knew she was thinking of a few months ago
when Lord Voldemort had nearly killed him again. "How are you?" she
continued.
"Fine," replied Harry. He didn't dare mention the nightmares, strange
dreams and the searing pains that his scar kept giving him. Harry loved Mrs
Weasley, but she could be rather over protective. Mrs Weasley looked
doubtful, but ushered him into the large kitchen and pushed him in front of
a large iced cake. Standing on top of the cake were little Quidditch
players who started moving as Harry approached, whizzing around on
broomsticks, trying to score in little hoops at either end of the cake. The
team in purple had just scored with a quaffle, and the purple figures let
out a small squeaky cheer, while the other team booed. Harry stood
transfixed.
"Do you like it?" burst out Ginny going red. "It's your birthday cake. I
helped make it"
 "It's absolutely brilliant," breathed Harry.
"I helped bewitch the players," said Ron looking pleased. Just then a
minute golden snitch appeared and both the purple and orange seeker
streaked towards it. The orange seeker caught it, and the purple players
stormed off the pitch shouting abuse and then disappeared with a loud pop.
The orange players did a lap of honor before disappearing themselves.
"Come on then," said Mrs Weasley, "Who wants a slice?" as she picked up a
large carving knife and cut everyone huge slices.
"It's the best birthday cake I've ever had." Harry told them though a
mouthful of cake.
After they had finished every crumb Harry and Ron lugged the trunk and cage
up to Ron's room. It was just as Harry remembered it - bright orange, but
with a few more posters than last year. Pigwidgeon was lying in a small
basket, his wing wrapped in a huge wad of bandaging. He was making pitiful
little hoots. Ron ignored him. Harry sank onto the bed and told Ron all
about his trip and how the Dursley's had treated him for the past weeks. He
decided to keep the dreams to himself. Instead he asked how Hermione was.
"Oh she's fine, been studying most of the holiday. Not that she needs to,"
"But it's the holidays" moaned Harry," can't she just stop putting her head
in a book for once."
"Oh but she did" replied Ron grinning. "She's been to Bulgaria visiting
Viktor Krum"
"Viktor Krum! I didn't realise they were that serious. I bet she had a
great time. I think he really likes her." There was then a pause. Harry
broke the silence, with the first thing he could think of,
"Anyway what's been happening in the wizarding world while I've been
captive at the Dursleys" Ron looked serious.
"Well actually not much. Dumbledore has written to the Daily Prophet
telling them that Voldemort has risen, but everyone seems to be ignoring
him.
"What?" cried Harry. "You mean that they don't believe that he is alive."
Ron looked a bit embarrassed.
"No, Apart from your story and Cedric's body there has been no sign of him.
Fudge has gone around saying that there was an accident at the Triwizard
Cup, which killed Cedric. He has had a lot of criticism for that, but no
one believes Dumbledore. They think he's off his rocker. People have been
writing in saying that he should resign. The ministry's in turmoil, some
believe Dumbledore, the rest think that Dumbledore should go. " Ron went
over to the bookshelves and pulled out a copy of The Daily Prophet, hidden
under a pile of books. Ron looked at Harry,
My parents don't know I've seen it," Ron said quietly. "Hermione sent it to
me last week." Harry took the paper. The headline blared out in huge black
letters, Dumbledore Ruined Azkaban Looms
Dumbledore today, was subjected to his final humiliation. A top ministry
official said today that Dumbledore had been asked to resign from his post
as senior advisor to the Ministry of Magic. This was a result of Dumbledore
refusing to accept the Ministry's line that You Know Who is dead. Mark
Colligere, the Ministry's spokesman on current affairs told us exclusively
last night that Dumbledore had been shamed beyond recognition. "He is no
longer a special advisor to Cornelius Fudge, nor will he be able to exert
any influence on the ministry. He has been in contact with the giants, and
this is completely against ministry guidelines." This final disgrace for
Dumbledore, does however have its critics within the ministry. An unnamed
source told us that Dumbledore's departure was mainly due to the sole
action of Mark Colligere, an up and coming officer who had a surprising
influence over certain ministry officials including Cornelius Fudge.
This is the second time that Dumbledore has come under criticism. He is
still involved in a far-reaching enquiry into a fatal incident at Hogwarts,
in which student Cedric Diggory was killed and the famous Harry Potter was
injured. If found guilty of undue neglect, Dumbledore could receive a
sentence in Azkaban.Harry stopped reading. He felt sick. How could they do this to Dumbledore?
And why wouldn't the ministry believe Harry and Dumbledore. He couldn't
believe they could put Dumbledore in Azkaban. Harry stared at the picture
of Mark Colligere who was smiling slimily from the page. He had greasy
black hair that hung over his dark black eyes. His incredibly thin lips
were forced into an over large grin. His eyes narrowed as Harry stared at
him feeling queasy. Ron looked at Harry's white face,
"Dad says it's that Mark Colligere. He says he's working for You Know Who,
and is trying to get Dumbledore out of the way. He's the only real threat
to You Know Who."
Harry reread the article and thought of Dumbledore being taken to Azkaban
to face the dementors. He shook the thought out of his head, it made him
feel sick to the stomach. He looked at Ron.
"You believe me, don't you?" Harry exclaimed.
"Yes of course I do, there are some who believe it, but they are in the
minority. But if You Know Who is back, why hasn't he started killing people
like he did before?"
"I don't know, but I saw him. He's alive. I know he is. I'm not funny in
the head. He saw me. He almost killed me!" Harry said furiously.
"Alright. Alright! I believe you, and the ministry have taken out some
precautions in case it's true," Ron continued. "Dumbledore's been doing as
much as he can to try and convince people, even if they won't listen."
Just then Mrs Weasley called them down for tea. Downstairs at one end of
the huge Weasley table was Mr Weasley who jumped up immediately when he saw
Harry,
"Harry my boy. How are you, been having fun with them Dursleys?" He pulled
the chair out next to him, and Harry spent the rest of the meal, explaining
the finer points of the television and explaining about how a taxi worked,
while Mr Weasley listened on bright eyed, almost forgetting about his
steaming pumpkin pie. Mrs Weasley eventually rescued Harry by sending Mr
Weasley to bring a cauldron sponge from the cellar. Harry glanced at Ron
who gave him an 'I'm sorry' look. He then turned to look at Ginny, who was
sitting very close to her mother. She blushed furiously and looked at her
knees. Harry wanted to take the opportunity to ask about Voldemort, but he
thought that this might not be a good idea at the dinner table. He instead
enquired into the Quidditch cup, which this year was taking place in
Germany,
"Oh, the final was between Ireland and Zambia", Ron told him, and the
dessert was taken up with a ball-by-ball analysis of the game. When they
had all finished the delicious Cauldron cake Mrs Weasley tapped the plates
which immediately became clean, and then neatly piled back into the large
dresser that took up one side of the room. Harry watched with his mouth
open thinking how much easier this was than the hours that the Dursleys had
spent making Harry do the washing up, until Ron grabbed his arm and pulled
him out of the back door.
"I've got something to show you, he told Harry excitedly. Harry followed
him to the shed, where outside leaning against the cracked wood was a
broom.
"A Nimbus 250, mum and dad got it for my birthday," he said proudly, as he
mounted it and sped round the garden. "Go get yours," he shouted while
circling the cherry tree at a very fast rate. Harry dashed indoors, up the
stairs and pulled his shinning Firebolt from his trunk. He looked at it
guiltily knowing how much it cost and knowing without being told that Ron's
was second hand. Just then Ron appeared at the window grinning widely. He
mimed open the window, which Harry flung open. Ron flew inside and landed
well next to his bed. He opened a drawer under his bed and pulled out an
old box. He opened it slowly. Inside was an old set of Quidditch balls, but
still very usable. The golden snitch was struggling hard against the rope
that held it in. Harry let out a low whistle. Ron's grin got even wider.
"A joint present from my brothers. They're special ones that you can use at
home, they won't go beyond the boundary stones in the garden, and they all
return when you blow this silver whistle," he said beaming. "Do you want to
play?"
"Do I?" laughed Harry. Ron released the snitch out of the window, and then
dived out after it. Harry followed and then together they chased each other
round the sky, seeing who could go the highest. Then one of them would spot
the snitch, and they dived to catch it before it disappeared. Harry tried
to let Ron spot the snitch first because his broom was much superior to the
old Nimbus, and went a lot faster. Ron didn't seem to mind, but Harry after
half an hour asked if they wanted to swap brooms. This was now a lot
fairer, as Harry had had a lot more practice at Quidditch than Ron, and the
score was five four to Ron when Harry saw Fred and George Weasley running
towards them holding out their broomsticks. They immediately mounted them
and sped towards Harry and Ron. George beat Fred by an inch and hit Harry
smartly on the back.
"Howya doing?" And without waiting for an answer shouted "Oi, Ron, get them
bludgers out" . They then spent the next hour playing a mini game of
Quidditch where Fred and George would try and keep a bludger from hitting
Ron or Harry who were seekers and scorers. Harry hadn't had as much fun for
months. However the best bit of all was when just as the sun turned the sky
a soft rose petal red and the warmth of the day circled the house sleepily,
Mr and Mrs Weasley came out and joined in, while Ginny stood watching them
and cheering Harry on. When it was really getting too dark to see the
bludgers let alone the tiny snitch, the end was called. Ron blew the silver
whistle and all the balls returned to their box. The Weasleys and Harry
then all collapsed into the kitchen panting and exhausted, but very happy.
Mrs Weasley poured them all a large mug of her best witch toffee brew,
which was heavenly. When Mrs Weasley left the room Fred and George filled
Harry in on the success of Weasley's Wizard Wheezes, which had got off the
ground despite their mother's severe disapproval. They showed Harry some of
him some of their new inventions. Harry particularly liked the peppermint
broomsticks, which if you ate them, you became immediately weightless, and
floated up to the ceiling. You didn't come back down until you finished
eating the broomsticks. Harry tried to buy a few, but the twins wouldn't
hear of it,
"It's only because of you that we had enough money to start it off " George
whispered, while Fred got a leather bag and filled it up with a selection
of the best of their inventions. His mother tutted, and told them that
Harry didn't want that junk, but Harry politely assured her that he did.
Eventually the twins crept upstairs, and Harry felt very sleepy also, but
he wanted to ask Mr Weasley about Voldemort. He eventually plucked up the
courage to ask him when Mrs Weasley decided that she was going to bed. Mr
Weasley immediately looked serious.
"Of course you wouldn't know, what with living with those Dursleys" he said
with some contempt. He hadn't forgiven them for their refusal to say good-
bye to Harry just before the Quidditch World Cup. " It's a sad business,
but I suppose you of all people have a right to know," he began. "As soon
as you left Hogwarts it started, there was a lot of trouble. The rumours
started that Dumbledore was responsible for the." Mr Weasley paused and
looked at the floor. He then continued without looking at Harry. ".for the
"accident" last term. There was a lot of confusion, an investigation with
strange results, and with all the turmoil that the ministry was in, some
people believed the rumours, and then the Daily Prophet got hold of some of
the rumours, along with some leaked reports and started a slander campaign
against Dumbledore. No one listened anymore to what he was saying. Then
there was even some talk about him leaving Hogwarts, but he refuses to
leave. He still has a lot of support from outside the ministry" Harry
looked Mr Weasley straight in the eyes,
"Do you believe that Vold.I mean You Know Who, is back?" Mr Weasley paused
before answering,
"Yes, yes I do, and I think that the vast majority of people still support
Dumbledore despite his enemies' slander. As for You Know Who, someone is
behind this, I won't mention any names of course, but this nastiness has
come from one source."
"Mark Colligere," Harry said quickly. Mr Weasley shot Harry a quick look,
his eyebrows raised,
"Well yes, him. I think that if You Know Who is back this would be his best
move. If he could get Dumbledore out of the picture, then he would be able
to take over a lot more easily and while his men in the ministry were
working, he could be working at other things and gathering his strength."
Mr Weasley suddenly stopped. Harry got the feeling that he thought he'd
said too much.
"Those are just some of my thoughts anyway and I think I've said enough,
you better go to bed now," Mr Weasley said abruptly.
Harry followed Ron upstairs, still feeling queasy. Both of the boys were
quiet, and didn't speak as they got into bed. Finally Ron asked, "Do you
think You Know Who'll be after you?"
"I don't know, but surely the Ministry would be all around, like when
Sirius was around, they didn't let me out of their sight, remember the
dementors,"
"Perhaps they are too stretched, if they are trying to protect all those
people." They then went quiet, and eventually Harry heard Ron's light
snoring. Harry however couldn't get to sleep. He sat up and went to the
window. He opened it, and leaned out allowing the warm night air to cool
his face. The sky was still quite light, and Harry could make out the
cherry tree at the end of the garden. Far off he could see lights from the
muggle village. Suddenly Harry though he saw movement. He looked closely at
the hedge by the shed, he was sure he could see something moving, and just
for a moment he saw the outline of what appeared to be a child, but then as
Harry rubbed his eyes, and strained them through the dark gloom, it had
vanished. Harry quickly closed the window and got back into his still warm
bed. He lay looking at the stars on the ceiling, before eventually falling
into a fitful sleep.
The boy was looking straight at him, his piercing blue eyes trying to tell
Harry something. Harry tried speaking, but there was no sound. He stood
watching the boy as the boy tried to free himself from the chair, which he
was tied to. The chair was tall and silver, and from it, silver vine like
bonds were wrapped tightly around his legs arms, legs and neck. The room
was dark, and Harry knew that they were by the sea from the strong salty
smell. There was a faint door in the wall, a door which unless you were
looking for a door you wouldn't notice. It seemed to blend in with the
dingy bricks surrounding it. Then as Harry stood watching this door he saw
it slide open, and the next thing he knew was that his head was exploding
with pain, and he was moaning out loud. Ron was awake and staring at him.
Harry sat up; his eyes immediately turned to the window. He wasn't sure
why. Outside it was raining hard and the sky was darkly pregnant with a lot
more."Typical!" moaned Ron as he saw Harry's gaze, "The first day you're here
and I have my new broom and it's raining." They quickly dressed, and
descended the stairs to an amazing breakfast provided by Mrs Weasley,
"I expect them Dursleys have been starving you" she said by way of an
excuse as she piled high his plate with bacon, eggs, fried bread, tomatoes
and crisply sausages. Mr Weasley was sitting at the head of the table,
"Since the weather is so bad, shall we go to Diagon Alley today and get
your new books? I've got the day off work for good behaviour," he winked at
Harry. Ron didn't look too happy, he was still annoyed that the rain had
destroyed his plans, but Harry brightened at the prospect. After breakfast
he sped upstairs, and wrote a note to Hermione to meet them at the Leaky
Cauldron. Ron said that she had arrived back the day before. Harry attached
the letter to Hedwig and told her to be quick. Then he took out his small
purse of galleons, sickles and knuts from his trunk quickly stuffing them
in his pocket before Ron saw how full it was.
Back downstairs, as soon as the breakfast plates were wiped clean by the
bewitched tea towel, Mrs Weasley fetched the pot of flue powder from the
mantelpiece. Harry this time knew what to do, took a pinch from the jar,
stood in front of the large fireplace, and said very clearly, "Diagon
Alley." He felt the familiar tug at his navel, and found himself spinning
round and round, and falling, until he felt his feet hit earth with a sharp
clunk, and he was standing in Diagon Alley surrounded by witches and
wizards. Shortly after Ron and his parents appeared behind him, then
followed by George and Fred. They all headed first for Gringotts the Goblin
Bank. There were too many Weasleys to fit into a Gringotts Trolley, so
Harry decided that he would visit his account on his own. This way he was
saved the embarrassment of having to let the Weasleys see how much money
there was in his vault compared to their very small pile of silver sickles
and bronze knuts.Back outside in the drizzle, still reeling from the speed of the trolley,
he met up with Ron and together they looked at their book list. There were
only two books on it because they were half way through the OWL course. The
first was for History of Magic, You Know Who, A Deadly History by D.
Eadsoon, and for Defense Against the Dark Arts there was a book called the
Students Guide to Protection by B. Carefowl. George peered over Harry's
shoulder,
"We didn't do anything about You Know Who last year, That's not fair," And
then they were gone towards Vetinari's Magic Jokes and Tricks to try and
sell some of their inventions. Ron said,
"I wonder who the new Defense against the Dark Arts teacher will be,
they've all come to a sticky end so far."
"Well they won't be as cool as Professor Lupin, remember the Boggarts, and
remember the Impervius Curse, with oh." He stopped suddenly realising
Harry's experience of just a few months ago with You Know Who was not
something that Harry wanted reminding. Harry went a little pale as he
realised why Ron had stopped, but didn't say anything. Ron quickly changed
the subject,
"Did you realise that Charlie has been promoted, he's now a dragon keeper,
which means that he is in charge of controlling all the dragons in one
country. People have to ask him if they want to kill one, or they have
something nasty done to them, I don't know what though."
"How's Bill?" Bill was Ron's other older brother, and in Harry's view, very
cool,
"Oh he's left his job at Gringotts, he's joined the Ministry of Magic, to
help protect those in danger, and help track Him down," said Ron proudly
"But he won't tell me much, its all very hush hush," he added. By this time
they were in the Leaky Cauldron, where they were supposed to be meeting
Hermione.
"Trust her to be late," muttered Ron. Harry looked around the pub. Inside
there were the usual old witches and wizards. Some of them nodded at Harry,
who smiled back. It was rather dark, but he could just make out a younger
witch at the bar. She was wearing a long pale violet dress that hid her
ankles. Her long hair cascaded over her shoulders and seemed to be
shimmering in the dusty air. To Harry she seemed to be like a fairy tale
princess in an old book. Ron had followed Harry's gaze and was staring too.
Just then she turned round and both Harry and Ron nearly fell over with
shock. It was Hermione. She immediately waved, and walked over, her dress
swishing around her ankles. It took Harry and Ron several seconds to regain
their voices. Both of them stammered at once,
"You look amazing."
"What have you done, you look." Hermione smiled at their shock.
"Do you like it?" she asked, "this style is all the fashion in Bulgaria."
"And your hair?" asked Ron still not quite believing it.
"Oh just a bit of magic" She said mysteriously, but pleased with their
reaction. "Anyway, where shall we go first?" They headed out of the Leaky
Cauldron and back into Diagon Alley. Harry couldn't help notice that
instead of usual stares at his forehead and scar many people were staring
at Hermione. She was telling Ron all about her holiday with Viktor,
"Oh I met all the team, they were great, we went to Theyadora's Palace,
it's a great place to go, we had a huge party in the middle of the forest,
all the team were there, and Zoe and the Brooms were there, they were just
the best, and then Viktor took me in his arms." And here she stopped
suddenly, and a faint blush came into her cheeks, but Ron didn't notice,
and was far more interested in the fact that she had met the Quidditch
World Cup Team.
"And what did Zograf say about the change in Quidditch rules to include the
Alexander Drop?" he asked excitedly. Hermione looked blank. By this time
they had reached the bookshop, and they entered, the musty smell of books
reminding Harry of the Hogwarts library. They soon found the assistant
looking tired and harassed as usual. He muttered something about biting
books before pointing then in the direction of the animal section for the
Students Guide to Protection book. There were many books in this section
with what looked like protective fur coats around them, and small books
that promised to protect against zombies by emitting a zombie death scream,
"Tacky junk," sniffed Hermione "At least this looks like a proper book" she
continued picking up the Students Guide to Protection, and gently flicking
through the thick fresh pages. Inside were intriguing diagrams showing
werewolves being slain, and vampires being well and truly killed by vicious
looking stakes.
"Wow!" said Ron as he saw an athletic looking boy armed with earmuffs and
his wand finish off a banshee. Then with their books they headed towards
the dark wizards section. For some reason the little room that contained
information on the dark wizards seemed to be colder and darker than the
rest of the shop. Harry had the uneasy suspicion that some of the books
were sucking in light and warmth. The books they were after were on a small
bronze table with a little sign saying, Just Out You Know Who, The Deadly History Under 18s do not read without an adult present
"What!" exclaimed Ron incredulously. "What do you mean I can't read it
without an adult, do I have to read it with my parents for a bedtime
story?" The assistant appeared spookily by his elbow,
"That's exactly what it means, try reading it if you want," He said with a
rather nasty smile. Ron stepped forward,
"It's only a book."
'Be careful," warned Hermione, "remember Hagrid's Monster book." But Ron
was reaching for the book. There was a large flash of blue lightening and
Ron suddenly screamed and was thrown back several feet,
"Ow" he yelled, "it stung me!"
"I did warn you" smiled the assistant grimly. "You will have to wait until
you are at school until you can read it". Ron scowled, but grabbed the book
and put it under his arm as he marched towards the counter. After they had
paid they walked outside and were pleased to see that the sun had come out,
and the sky was now brilliantly blue. They walked along Diagon Alley
staring into the interesting shops. Suddenly Hermione pointed at Frensha's
Fashion Frenzy.
"Just look at that cloak" she exclaimed indicating a long dark purple cloak
in the window. Ron pulled a face, but Hermione was already inside the shop."What has Krum done to her?" Harry asked Ron in amazement. But they
followed her in, and were pleased to find that it wasn't just a girls'
shop. At the back were cool cloaks that shimmered in the dark, dragon hide
boots, and amazing hats that emitted a soft glow.
"Just look at those boots" moaned Ron, "They were advertised in the Daily
Prophet last week, "But oh look at that price, that would cost me a years'
pocket money. Even Bill's aren't that nice". However Harry who wasn't so in
to wizard fashion thought that most of the items looked really odd. Just
the Hermione flounced back to them wearing the purple cloak.
"What do you think?" she asked happily. Ron and Harry exchanged looks. This
wasn't the Hermione they had been with at Hogwarts last year. However
Hermione didn't seem to notice, and instead was looking at herself in the
full length mirror,
"Suits you, dear," the mirror told her. "Perfect with that lovely dress
you're wearing." Hermione grinned, and went to pay for it. Ron sighed in
exasperation.
Their next stop was Gianna's Ice Cream Emporium where Harry insisted on
buying them all an ice cream. This seemed to cheer Ron up a bit, as they
headed towards the alchemists to stock up on potions. Inside they met
Neville, who was moaning to his Gran that he couldn't remember what he was
short of, and that he'd lost the list that told him. He brightened up when
he saw Harry, Hermione and Ron.
"Perhaps you can remember?" he asked hopefully. Hermione immediately
produced her list, and together they worked out what Neville needed.
Meanwhile Harry and Ron were studying their own list.
"Dragons tongue, I wonder what we need that for? We've never used it
before," exclaimed Harry.
"There's a lot here that we haven't used. Look Duckles beans, ears of
bathod and essence of Thuckleweed," Ron said interestedly.
Thuckleweed, I've never even heard of Thuckleweed" exclaimed Harry.
"Oh you use it for making advanced reversal potions," said Hermione
hurrying back over. They collected together all their ingredients, paid the
little wizened man behind the counter, and left.
"Look at the time," Ron suddenly burst out, "It's time we were heading
back. Mum will be wondering where we are." So they headed towards the end
of Diagon Alley, a couple of boys whistling at Hermione as she passed. She
ignored them though, and kept up with Harry and Ron as she saw the rest of
the Weasleys looking cross and impatient by the pub. Mrs Weasley looked
like she was about to shout at them, but stopped upon seeing Hermione.
Instead of the furious torrent she just said,
"You look very nice dear." Hermione blushed slightly, but looked pleased
all the same.
"It's about time we were returning don't you think?" said Mr Weasley
mildly, "are you joining us?" he said staring at Hermione.
"Yes please, if that's alright," she replied.
 Back at The Burrow, Ron and was showing Hermione his new Quidditch set and
then for the rest of the day they played in the garden, Hermione using one
of the twins' brooms. She was surprisingly good. Harry had never had the
chance to see her playing Quidditch. That night Harry was so tired he had
no problem dropping off to sleep.





--------




Chapter 4 The Isle of CelreThere was no dream that night. Harry slept long and peacefully. He woke up
to the sun streaming in through the crack in the curtains. The room seemed
on fire with light. Harry rolled over and reached for his glasses. Ron was
still fast asleep, so Harry lay and watched the Quidditch players playing
on Ron's posters, until Mrs Weasley knocked sharply on the door telling
them to get up. Harry got dressed quickly and went down to breakfast. To
his great surprise Hermione was sitting at the table,
"I invited her to go out with us today," yawned Ron as he tucked into a
large bowl of porridge. Harry attacked his, half listening to Hermione
relating yet another party with Viktor Krum. After breakfast, Mrs Weasley
provided them with a heavy rucksack of food, and then to Harry's surprise
Bill apparated in front of them. Mrs Weasley gave him a large hug, and he
grinned broadly,
"Well are we ready then?" he asked them. Ron grinned back.
"Bill is taking us out for the day," he told Hermione and Harry. They set
off, along the road, and passed through Ottery St Catchpole. They all
laughed when Harry told them about trying to find the house and the lady
with the baby thinking he was after some weasels. The sun was beating down
on the back of their necks fiercely and their clothes stuck to them as they
walked. Bill brought out some cool, refreshing peppermint fizz from his
backpack and they sat down in a shady grassy hollow. Bill told them about
the time he had to fight single handed against six goblins who were trying
to steal some treasure. Hermione listened with obvious admiration. Ron
whispered to Harry,
"Looks like Krum's got competition." Hermione blushed a deep red, and threw
her empty cup at Ron.
"Ow!" yelled Ron, as the cup hit him squarely on the chest. In return he
threw his cup back, and half a cup of green sticky liquid sprayed over
Hermione. Hermione looked furious, and was just about to retaliate when
Bill interrupted them by laughing loudly. Hermione stopped mid throw and
joined in the laughter. Ron and Harry both started too and the hollow was
alive with their laughter.They carried on, walking along a sunken lane, the hedges and trees making
the road into a green tunnel. Harry enjoyed listening to Bill's stories,
but he had a nagging suspicion that they were being followed. He turned
round quickly several times, and thought he saw something in the corner of
his eye. I'm being paranoid he thought, and concentrated on Bill explaining
to Hermione how he'd escaped Filch one night when he and his first girl
friend Kate decided to steal some potion ingredients for a levitating
potion. They'd had to hide in a suit of armour, which was already inhabited
by a ghost and who wouldn't let them out again. It was almost an hour later
when Bill was talking earnestly to Hermione about some complicated
transfigurations and Ron was telling Harry about the latest match of the
Chudley Cannons, when Harry first saw the sea. It sparkled beautifully, a
deep blue. Harry looked at it longingly. He had never been swimming in the
sea. The last time he'd been anywhere near the sea was when Uncle Vernon
was trying to stop him receiving his invitation letter to Hogwarts. He
couldn't really swim. His class had gone swimming at school but Harry had
tried to be ill each time. The few times that he'd actually gone in the
water Dudley had held his head under water so long that he'd passed out.
Another time he'd been tripped up and cut his head as he fell into the
swimming pool, much to the amusement of Dudley's gang. Bill led them down
the steep cliffs to the sandy beach. They quickly got changed and ran
splashing into the water. Hermione was an excellent swimmer and she and
Bill went far out. Harry wasn't so confident, but with Ron's help he was
able to swim as long as he wasn't out of his depth. The day was very warm,
and the water felt icy cold at first. The sandy beach was completely
deserted and Ron, Hermione, Harry and Bill had a wonderful time. When they
were all tired, they collapsed on the beach and ate their way though the
wonderful spread that Mrs Weasley had provided. It was well past midday
when Bill led them on again along the beach. They rounded a headland and
Harry was astonished to see an island sitting about a mile out of a large
stony bay. The tide was out, and it was possible to walk out along a rocky
platform, and then onto rippled sand.
"You have to careful here," Bill told them. "There's a lot of quick sand
round here, several muggles have perished out here. This island is one of
two in the country and only eight in the world, completely muggle invisible
islands. Muggles can't see it, and if they're in boats they avoid it
instinctively."
"Why what's so special about it?" asked Harry interestedly.
"It was You Know Who's Headquarters, at one time. It was then a museum for
a bit, but closed because there weren't enough visitors."
"Isn't it the Island of Celre, where mum said we mustn't go on any
account?" Ron asked rather pointedly.
"Did she?" Bill said with exaggerated surprise.
"I know it's associated with You Know Who, but what's so dangerous about it
now?" asked Hermione.
"There's a lot of bad rumours around it." Bill said rather more seriously.
"They say people have gone missing there and not many people like it. I
don't believe it." They walked towards the island in silence. Harry wasn't
sure if he was imagining things, but he felt that there was something bad
on the island. As he got closer that his scar started aching, then tingling
and then a stabbing pain. By the time they reached the shores of the
island, the pain was so bad that Harry stumbled and fell to his knees. He
was immediately surrounded by Ron, Hermione and Bill, all of them looking
at him with concern.
"What's the matter?" said Bill and Hermione at once.
"I'm alright," mumbled Harry, their worried faces swimming in front of his
eyes. As he spoke however, the pain lessened, and he was able to stand up
straight.
"I'm alright," he said again with a little more conviction."What happened?" said Hermione,
"Do you want to go back?" asked Bill.
"No, no. It was absolutely nothing." Harry said vehemently. He was
embarrassed that he had shown how weak he was, especially in front of Bill
who was so cool. Harry pushed angrily forward towards the island leaving
the others behind him. All the same he was worried. Why did his scar hurt
so? Surely Voldemort wasn't anywhere near, or did his evil presence remain
and cause his scar to hurt? Were they in any danger, and should he tell the
others? Harry slowed and waited for the others. They looked at him
strangely, but didn't ask him any more questions. They had reached the
island and the castle loomed darkly. Harry didn't know if he was imagining
it, but it looked like the entire castle was in darkness despite the bright
sunlight. Ravens circled it; their harsh calls filled the air. The building
itself looked in disrepair. The first two floors were more or less intact,
but above that there was no glass in the windows, and black darkness stared
out of them. The fourth floor was a complete ruin, with only half walls,
although the roof supports were still there looking like a black rib cage.
Harry and the others walked towards the ornate front of the building. Huge
pillars surrounded a massive black door, ornately carved with dragons and
other beasts. Walking closer they saw that several windows were smashed,
and weeds were growing out of the cracked stone pavement. Harry felt his
scar becoming painful again. He lagged behind the others. Ron however was
speeding up excited to see the forbidden castle. Hermione slowed and joined
Harry.
"Are you really alright?" she asked Harry in a quiet voice."It's my scar, its hurting," said Harry, "It's hurting more the closer we
get."
"Do you want to stop or go back?"
"Can we just stop for a bit?" Harry replied. They sat down and looked out
at the sea. Harry sat down and felt the warm sun caress his body. When he
wasn't looking at the castle of Celre the pain lessened. All the same
Harry still had the feeling he was being watched. There was a sudden
scream. Hermione and Harry knew immediately it was Ron. They leapt up, and
ran towards the castle. Bill had Ron in his arms and was running towards
them.
"I think he's alright," Bill told them breathlessly, "I think he's just
knocked out."
"What happened?" Harry said looking at the pale lifeless Ron in his
brother's arms.
"I don't know, he was just in front of me looking in one of the broken
windows when he screamed and collapsed. I think he was stunned. We better
get out of here. There's somebody or something in there." Bill laid Ron
gently down on the beach, and shook him. Ron remained lifeless. There was
suddenly a swishing noise on the air. Wizards were apparating around them.
Harry, Hermione and Bill drew their wands, but to their bewilderment
Dumbledore stepped forth. He said nothing to them, but knelt by Ron, and
whispered enervate into his ear. Ron slowly sat up, and looked round him
stupidly.
"What's, who. what's going on?" he mumbled. Dumbledore stood up, he pointed
with his wand toward the castle,
"Search it," he said loudly. He then turned to the four.
"Bill I would have expected more than this from you. I hold you responsible
for this, you should have heeded your parents' advice, this is a dangerous
place, and you have brought these children into danger." Bill hung his head
in the deepest shame. There was a long silence, and eventually Hermione
asked nervously,
"What happened, and how did you know?"
"As for what happened I don't know, who ever it was has probably
disapparated by now. It was probably just some wizard trying to scare you.
As for your second question Miss Granger, how did I know? Well I think
Harry here might know.""There's been someone following us, hasn't there sir? Walking behind us
when we were out."
"Yes, and haven't you worked out who yet?""No," said Harry blankly,
"Show yourself," Dumbledore commanded. There was a small pop and Dobby
appeared by Dumbledore's legs.
"Dobby!" exclaimed Harry
 He grinned at Harry,
"I been watching you" he said happily. "Dumbledore trusted me to watch you,
and make sure you didn't get up to anything." Harry stared at Dobby.
"It was you who was outside Privet Drive as well, wasn't it?" Harry asked.
Dumbledore answered,
"Yes, I have employed him to keep an eye on you, I'm sorry, but the events
earlier this summer meant that we needed to watch you." Harry felt
violated, but at the same time he felt partially reassured, Dumbledore was
there if he needed him. The wizards were returning to Dumbledore. Harry
stared, Professor Lupin was in front.
"It's clear, nobody or nothing there, they must have disapparated."
Professor Lupin told Dumbledore.
"Do you think." Lupin continued but was cut short by Dumbledore,
"This is not the time or the place, Remus." Lupin looked at Dumbledore, and
then at Harry.
"Harry, so we do meet again, as promised." He bowed deeply to Harry, much
to Harry's embarrassment. Dumbledore then addressed everyone,
"Well it seems to be a false alarm this time, thank you for your quick
response, you may go now," And with a series of small pops all the wizards
but Dumbledore left.
"Well then, you better be getting home, your parents will be worrying about
you."
"But, how, the tides come in, we're cut off," Hermione said suddenly.
"I'm sure Bill will have thought of that," and with that he disapparated.
Hermione looked rather wildly at Bill,
"How are we getting off?" she asked.
"It's alright, there's a whole fleet of little boats we can use. They're
left over from when the castle was tourist attraction. Come on." Bill led
them to a little inlet on the far side of the island. Ten little boats were
moored at a little landing platform. Bill chose the least rickety one. It
was painted in a peeling grass green, and was called Jean. Bill rowed them
back in silence, and when they reached the beach, he apologised,
"I'm really sorry, I've been so stupid taking you there." The others didn't
answer, but looked at him in silence. Bill leaned over Jean and tapped her
once on the bow with his wand. The little boat shuddered and gratingly
pulled itself off the sand. It landed with a small splash in the sea and
bobbed off in the direction of the Isle of Celare. Bill turned to them,
"Come one we'd better be off then." He started to walk off down the beach,
his feet sinking into the wet sand. The others took one last look at Jean
who was nearly half way back, and then followed him silently along the road
back up to Ottery St Catchpole. They were nearing the outskirts of Ottery
St Catchpole when Ron looked round wildly, with a look of panic on his
face,
"My wand, it's gone, my wand.it's not here,"
"When did you last have it," said Hermione concerned,
"On the island.just before I got stunned. It was in my hand, I thought
there was someone in there, so I took it out. It must have fallen out of my
hand when I was stunned." Bill looked worried,
"Well we can't go back for it, it's too dangerous. It's all my fault.
Tomorrow we'll go to Diagon Alley, and I'll buy you a new one. Please don't
tell mum, I'm in enough trouble already." Ron looked half upset about
loosing his wand, but at the same time, half happy about getting a new one.
They had reached the Warren. They all sat on the maple leaf seat together
and said Revealium hausia Weasley. Mrs Weasley was running towards them
furious.
"I've just heard," she yelled from half way across the lawn. "How could you
Bill, I've just had Dumbledore himself here, I have never been so ashamed!"
Bill looked at the ground. Harry and Hermione looked away.
"It's alright mum." Ron said quietly. "Nothing happened." This was
obviously the wrong thing to say. Mrs Weasley boiled over,
"NOTHING HAPPENED, Nothing happened! You could have been killed," She
looked like she had a lot more to say, but paused, and looked at Ron and
then Harry with a trace of sadness. "Ron I want you to help me get tea
ready." She said, not quite as angrily. Hermione, Ron and Harry headed
indoors quite subdued. Harry and Hermione played exploding snap in Ron's
room until they were called down for tea. The atmosphere was considerably
lighter with Fred and George, and Bill was nowhere to be seen.





--------




Chapter 5 Fight on the Hogwarts ExpressHarry woke, knowing at once that in the night he had seen that boy again,
but he couldn't remember anything else about it. He rolled over in his bed
listening to the ghoul in the attic moaning mournfully. The sun was just
rising, turning the bedroom a deep shade of red. Harry squinted at Ron who
was still snoring gently tucked up in his warm duvet. Harry looked at
Hedwig who had just flown in the open window. Her feathers were gleaming in
the red gold light. She came and perched next to him on his pillow, pulling
at his ears gently. Harry rolled over and pulled the duvet over his ears to
stop her. She flapped her wings angrily, and flew off out of the window.
Harry decided that it was too nice to stay in bed, so he quickly pulled on
his jumper and jeans, both Dudley cast offs, and far too big for him. He
couldn't use his wizard money to buy ordinary muggle clothes. He looked out
of the window to see where Hedwig had gone. Again he looked by the hedge,
and caught a fleeting glance of two long pointy ears, and two tennis ball
shaped eyes before they vanished.The rest of the week passed quickly and happily, with Harry seeing no more
of Dobby. Long sunny days were spent playing Quidditch, going for long
walks, and occasionally doing some holiday assignments. All too soon it was
time to go back to school, and Ron, Ginny, Harry, Fred and George and Mr
and Mrs Weasley were loaded into the big black ministry car. Although Mr
Weasley didn't say anything Harry supposed that he was still at risk from
Voldemort, and the ministry were trying to keep him out of danger. Harry
hadn't seen Percy more than three times during his week at the Weasleys.
Ron said that he had taken to sleeping in his office, tightening controls
on cheap foreign imported wands. Ron mimicked Percy's fussy tones,
"They're very dangerous you know, people buy them, and then they end up
doing Avada Kedavra instead of an alohomora, and someone's dead, because
they bought a cheap import."
On platform nine and three quarters they met up with Hermione who was
attracting many stares from the students waiting to get on. Harry heard one
boy asking another if she was new, and whether he thought she would go out
with him. Harry thanked the Weasleys for their wonderful hospitality. They
looked a little nervous about letting him go out of their sight.
"You will be careful this year, Harry won't you. Not do anything dangerous.
Please" Mrs Weasley told him quietly.
"Just be sensible Harry. I've sent an owl to Dumbledore speaking of my
concerns. Please be careful Harry," Mr Weasley added. Harry looked at their
serious faces, and suddenly felt a chill in his heart. He had a terrible
feeling that he might never see them again. He reassured them, he'd be
careful and then boarded the train, and found a spare compartment.
"Just ignore them" Ron tried to reassure Harry, who was still looking a bit
funny. "They're just going over the top. I mean what could get you at
Hogwarts with Dumbledore looking out for you?" Harry suddenly smiled, and
quickly changed the subject to who the new Defense of the Dark Arts teacher
would be. Their suggestions were getting more and more ridiculous when
Hermione walked in,
"I don't think that even Dumbledore would let a vampire teach us," she
said, over hearing Ron's last suggestion. She sat down, Crookshanks at her
feet. The train let out off a huge belch of steam, and started to pull
slowly and painfully out of the station. Harry, Ron and Hermione waved
frantically to the rapidly retreating Mr and Mrs Weasley.
"Well then, have you done your holiday assignment? How did you find that
essay of Professor Flitwicks?" began Hermione. Harry and Ron grinned, this
was more like the Hermione they knew. They happily discussed the essay, and
then Hermione decided that she needed to find Neville. Almost as soon as
she had gone, Malfoy appeared at the door to the apartment.
"Hello there. It's the famous Harry Potter" he sneered. Goyle and Crabb
appeared behind him. "Haven't gone the way of your parents yet? Still
basking in the glory of winning the Tri-wizard Cup. Pity you had to get rid
of that loser Diggory first." This was too much for Harry. He had not
escaped from Lord Voldemort, for this. He leapt up; Ron was at his side his
wand outstretched.
"What did you say?" he demanded.
"You heard what I said, it wouldn't do for the famous Harry Potter to
lose," Malfoy said, his face in a twisted smile.
Harry charged at Malfoy who stepped back, letting Harry run straight into
Crabb. Crabb threw him back with a vicious punch to his nose. Ron threw
down his wand and started attacking Goyle who had Ron in a headlock in
seconds. Crabb then sat on top of Harry using his face as a punch bag.
Harry couldn't move, or even breathe with Crabb's great weight on his
chest. Harry's face was going slightly blue when Hermione suddenly walked
in. She grabbed Malfoy round the waist where he was giving Harry a few well-
aimed kicks to the ribs and threw him out into the corridor,
"WHAT THE HELL ARE YOU DOING?" she yelled. Both Crabb and Goyle stopped and
stood up. Goyle had a cut lip, but Crabb seemed remarkably unscathed. "Get
out now!" and to Ron and Harry's amazement they obeyed and disappeared out
of sight. Hermione then turned her anger onto Harry and Ron.
"What do you think you were doing? Who started it?"
"Malfoy was saying that Harry killed Diggory so he could win the Triwizard
Tournament," Ron panted.
"So you started it," Hermione exclaimed. "Can't you see they are much
stronger than you." She looked at Harry whose face had swelled and was one
big purple bruise streaked with blood. She got a handkerchief out of her
bag and gave it to him telling him to get cleaned up. Harry pulled himself
off the floor groaning. His ribs seemed to be on fire where Malfoy's strong
boots had kicked him. Ron had fared a little better and just had a
nosebleed.
"I don't know what we are going to do," Hermione sighed. "We can't tell a
teacher, because you started it, and everyone who sees you is going to know
you've been in a fight. They'll be taking points off Gryffindor before
we've even started term."
"Well what did you expect us to do? Just let him destroy Diggory's memory
and carry on insulting Harry and his parents" replied Ron angrily. "Aren't
they more important than a few points?"
"I'm sorry I didn't mean that. I just meant that if you try fighting them
you're going to lose. There are three of them for a start. There are other
ways of getting revenge."
"Oh yeah like what?" But Harry interrupted,
"Oh just shut up both of you." moaned Harry. "Look we're sorry. We came off
worst. We won't do it again, you're acting like a teacher." Hermione
stopped and looked at Harry again. He looked like a survivor from a large
explosion. Blood covered his face, and large angry bruises were appearing
on his face. Hermione and Ron both looked at each other, and then did their
best to make Harry comfortable. He was feeling extremely woozy, and closed
his eyes. Hermione suddenly dashed over to her trunk and started rummaging
in it.
"Where's that book, I know it's here somewhere."
"What are you doing?" groaned Ron. "it's not the time to be reading."
"Oh just shut up will you" yelled Hermione. "There was a spell I read, in
one of the books I read over the hols, ah, I'm sure it was this one. Yes it
was after the one about warts. Here. Look how to reduce bruising. This
simple little charm will help anyone who's suffered bruising however big or
small just, oh yes I remember Aradia brudiom Fenchosa."
She retrieved her wand and pointing it at Harry, whispered the words and
immediately Harry felt his face reduce in size, and went back to its normal
colour. The pain disappeared, and Harry sat up feeling better already.
"Wow Hermione!" said Ron impressed, and a little sheepish. "Look I'm sorry
about."Don't worry about it" said Hermione looking pleased.
"Thanks Hermione" said Harry. Just then the old witch with the trolley
peered in and asked if they wanted anything. Harry dashed out and bought
back the largest bar of chocolate that she had.
"I think we deserve it," said Harry as he divided it out.
The rest of the journey passed uneventfully, and the sun was just
disappearing over the high hills behind Hogwarts as they left the train for
the fleet of horse-less carriages. Once inside they all made their way to
the great hall, the roof speckled with twinkling stars, reflecting the
world outside. Harry was looking forward to the sorting ceremony when the
first years tried on the sorting hat, which decided the house that they
entered. He noticed that many of the first years, as they huddled together,
were pointing and staring in his direction, but he ignored them, and
instead speculated which of the first years looked like Slytherins. Then
Hermione suddenly pointed to the teachers' table. A young witch had just
entered, and the hall went quiet as everyone stared. The woman had long
straight lustrous hair reaching down to the back of her knees. She was
wearing a very tight blue dress, and reminded Harry of a computer game
heroine that Dudley would spend hours trying to beat on his new
playstation.
"Just look at her," went the whispers round the hall.
"She can't be a teacher."
"Do you think that she is the Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher?"
"Wow, I'm glad I choose Defense of the Dark Arts instead of Arithmancy."
She swept into her chair at the teachers' table, her matching cloak draped
perfectly over her petit shoulders. She looked over the gathered children
lazily. Many of the boys were still staring, their mouths open. Hermione
nudged Ron crossly, as he gazed in wonder.
The sorting ceremony was over very quickly, and Dumbledore began his
speech. Harry thought that he didn't have his usual composure,
"Welcome all. Welcome to Hogwarts and welcome to a New Year. First I would
like to introduce Professor Jenai, the new Defense Against the Dark Arts
Teacher." He was drowned out by whooping and cheering, mainly from the
boys. Dumbledore held up his hands to quieten them. "And now there are a
few more messages. Filch has told me once again that magic is strictly
banned from the corridors. He has extended the list of banned objects to
include Egg Bombs and Martyn's Magic Impossible To Remove Markers. This is
after a rather unfortunate incident last term." Dumbedore's eyes swept
particularly to the Gryffindor Table where Fred and George sat looking
rather guilty.
"Also there are various creatures guarding this castle, so please will no
pupil go into the grounds without an adult, and anyone entering the
Forbidden Forest will not return in more than five pieces. The Daily
Prophet will no longer be deliver to Hogwarts. I feel that it will be
distracting to your studies." Ron and Hermione looked at each other
confused,
"Why, what's in the Daily Prophet?" Ron whispered, Hermione shrugged.
Dumbledore continued, his loud voice cutting through their conversation.
"And finally before we tuck into this delicious feast, I would like to see
Harry Potter in my office immediately after the feast. You may begin." A
whisper ran round the hall at the name of Harry Potter, particularly from
the First Years. Ron leaned over to Harry,
"Has Malfoy told him about the fight?" he asked urgently.
"Dumbledore said that if you two were in trouble again then, you'd be
expelled" whispered Hermione. Harry felt sick. What if he was expelled? He
might have to live with the Dursleys. That was a fate worst than death. He
hated Malfoy. Why couldn't he just keep quiet? Why did he have to tell?
They'd come off worse after all. The food that had appeared on the plates
didn't look so appetizing. Harry couldn't believe it. He'd only been at
Hogwarts an hour, and he was already in trouble.
"Look, I'll tell him it wasn't your fault," continued Hermione. "Say Malfoy
started it." Harry said nothing. He looked at the large piece of Black
Forest gateaux on his plate, but he couldn't eat it. The meal seemed to go
on for hours. Eventually the plates were magically cleaned, and the hall
cleared. Harry hung back reluctant to go to Dumbledore's room, but
eventually the hall was nearly empty, and Harry had to go and find
Dumbledore. He stood outside the door that led to Dumbledore's tower and
wondered what to do. He didn't know the password, but just as he was about
to knock the door swung open, and Dumbledore's voice echoed down the
stairs,
"Come on up Harry." Harry stood on the moving stairs with apprehension.
When he reached the circular room Dumbledore was standing at the furthest
window looking out.
"Sit down please Harry," Dumbledore said quietly. Harry sat nervously on
the nearest chair. Dumbledore turned looking very old and serious. Help,
thought Harry, I'm really in for it now.
"How are you Harry?" he asked gravely.
"I'm fine sir," then he burst out, he couldn't bear the disappointment in
Dumbledore's face as he expelled him. "I'm sorry about the fight. It was
just that he was saying that I."
"Harry," Dumbledore interrupted. "This isn't about a fight." Harry stared
at Dumbledore in bewilderment. What did Dumbledore want then?
"As far as this school is concerned it didn't happen. No this is about
something infinitely more serious." The butterflies in Harry's stomach
fluttered even more. What could be worse than being expelled? Dumbledore's
eyes fixed on Harry,
"The Daily Prophet, I don't know if you know, the wizarding world does not
believe. chooses to ignore the evidence that Voldemort is and has arisen.
Now the Daily Prophet received something that it and the whole world cannot
ignore. A message." He paused and looked sadly at Harry. It was the same
sort of look that Mr and Mrs Weasley had given him as he left for Hogwarts."The message was found on the body of an old auror known as Rufus
Redchurch. He was responsible for bringing many of the helpers of Voldemort
to justice. He was also a senior minister at the ministry." Harry wondered
where all this was going. Why was Dumbledore telling him all this?
"The message was written in his blood, and contained the black mark. It
went as follows." Dumbledore turned to face the window again.
 "To all those of the wizarding world. Those of you who foolishly believe that I am past, will be proved wrong. I have returned. My powers are
 restored and will be demonstrated by the death of those who many stupidly believe is stronger than me. Harry Potter will die, and all those who protect him will perish also. I will return and rule. It is my time. Beware of Lord Voldemort.
"The ministry now have their proof," continued Dumbledore bitterly, "The
ministry is in chaos, no-one doubts the authenticity of the black mark.
This leaves you, Harry, you in the middle of it all." He turned again to
face Harry who was sitting numbly in his seat staring at the floor.
"Harry, I have been conversing with the giants much to the criticism of
some of my peers that foolishly consider giants to be a danger, they have
agreed to come and protect the castle. Five giants will be patrolling the
grounds. They may be able to help. However we may not be able to protect
you here Harry. I want to offer you the chance to go into hiding.
"Believe me, I do not take this option lightly, but Lord Voldemort is
stronger than even I, and it is possible that he may break through the
defenses that are in place at Hogwarts. However the option of you going
into hiding means separation from me, and it is possible that he may find
you wherever you go. Harry, the choice is yours, and yours alone." Harry
looked up from the floor, not quite believing the offer in front of him.
"If I.if I stay at Hogwarts and He comes.won't it put you and everyone else
in danger?"
"Harry it is not your duty to protect them, yes it is possible, I won't lie
to you, but so is everyone at the moment. No one is safe. Just because you
leave doesn't mean that there isn't a danger for those left behind. We will
do our best to protect you where ever you decide." Harry thought. He
couldn't imagine leaving Hogwarts, Hermione and Ron. Leaving Dumbledore and
all the other teachers. He'd rather be dead. But on the other hand he could
be putting them all at risk by staying. He tried to explain this to
Dumbledore. Dumbledore listened gravely and paused before replying,
"Harry I know that you want to stay. Perhaps then we will make an
arrangement as follows . if things become too dangerous for you or any of
the pupils we will reconsider our positions. Of course if Hogwarts is
directly threatened I will consider evacuating the castle anyway. Do not
let this influence your decision to any extent." Harry thought about
leaving Hogwarts, and a pain shot through his chest. He couldn't bear to
even think about leaving.
"Sir. I think, I would feel better at Hogwarts. But if there is any threat
to anyone, I will go. I don't want anyone to get hurt because of me."
Harry's insides were churning, and he was glad that he hadn't eaten
anything at the feast.
"A brave decision Harry. It is a choice that I would not like to give
anyone, but you have chosen wisely."
"Why does He want to kill me so much? I'm only a boy. Why me?"
Dumbledore looked at Harry somberly
"I wondered when you would ask this. And I'm afraid the answer is you. When
Voldemort tried to kill you the curse rebounded as you know. This means
that he can never be as powerful as he was before, until he kills you.
Magic often works in strange ways and therefore you are the largest
obstacle between Voldemort and his gaining total power."
That doesn't answer why Voldemort wanted to kill me in the first place
thought Harry, but he had a funny feeling that Dumbledore was avoiding
answering that question. Harry felt even more ill than he did at the table
in the Great Hall thinking that he was going to be expelled. He stared out
of the window where the setting sun was creating a mixture of pinks and
purples in the sky. The room seemed suddenly dark and the candles
flickering on the walls did not replace the light of the setting sun. On
his perch, Fawkes was grooming himself, his feathers gleaming a deep bronze-
gold in they dying sun's rays. Dumbledore continued,
"Harry I have explained the situation, I would ask you to consider the risk
to yourself. Please could you keep to the rules - no nighttime adventures.
Also please do not go out into the grounds without an adult, and I'm afraid
there will be no visits to Hogsmeade."
"But what about Quidditch?" said Harry suddenly. The lurching in his
stomach had got worse at the thought of being banned from Quidditch. "What
about that?" Dumbledore seemed to consider this for some time.
"I do not see there being much danger in Quidditch matches." He eventually
said. "But as for practices, you would be a bit of an open target. I
believe it would be best if you avoided those."
Harry's face fell. But at least he wouldn't have to miss the Quidditch
matches, but would the team still want him if he wasn't able to attend
practices? He could be dropped from the team.
"Anyway I think we have discussed everything. It would perhaps be best if
you only told Hermione and Ron about our discussion. I don't want to cause
a panic. I shall explain to the teachers all they need to know. If you want
to discuss anything, don't hesitate to come and find me. Oh and Harry, just
be careful please. Right, you better get back to your tower. Good bye then
Harry"
Harry left Dumbledore's room feeling much worse that he went in.





--------




Chapter 6 Lessons ReturnHarry walked slowly towards the portrait hole. He was having problems
digesting all the things that he had just heard. In some ways it was worst
than being expelled. Why couldn't Voldemort just leave him alone? Why was
he so important? The halls were very dark and the candles flickered
spookily, clumped at intervals along the stone walls. He reached the
portrait of the Fat Lady, and suddenly realised he didn't know the new
password. He tried pleading with the Fat Lady, but she wouldn't let anyone
in without the password. Harry couldn't believe his luck. He sat down on
the floor facing the portrait. He suddenly felt cold, and very lonely. The
floor and walls were very cold and hard, and the corridor looked dark and
threatening. Harry didn't know how long he sat there listening to the
muffled sounds of the people enjoying themselves in the common room.
Eventually two older Gryffindor girls came along the corridor. Harry jumped
up and asked them for the password. They looked scathingly at him as if he
was stupid enough to have forgotten it after only being there for a few
hours.
"Super whale," they said before walking off sniggering about something.
Harry told the Fat Lady the password and climbed thankfully into common
room.
Inside, the warmth and noise greeted him like a wave. He saw Ron and
Hermione rushing over towards him.
"What happened?"
"What's the matter Harry?"
Harry just looked at them, before saying,
"Is there anywhere we can go that's private?"
"Yeah, Let's go up to our dormitory. No one will be up there at the moment,
come on Harry."
Harry followed them up the stairs numbly. They all sat on the beds and
stared at Harry. He told them as briefly as he could what Dumbledore had
told him. Hermione's eyes were wide with concern, while Ron's mouth was
half open in shock. No one spoke for a whole minute while they digested the
news. Eventually Hermione broke the deadly silence,
"Harry, Dumbledore will do his best to help you. He won't be able to get
you in Hogwarts. You're as safe here as you'll be anywhere." She tried to
reassure him.
"Look You Know Who has tried to kill you before, but you escaped. Who says
he's going to get you now."
"It's." But she broke off as the door to the room opened, and Neville
entered.
"Excuse me, I'm sorry to interrupt but is Trevor up here?"
"No" said Hermione crossly. Neville's face fell, and he fled from the room.
Hermione looked sorry at once, and then followed him down the stairs to
apologize. Harry was still looking very pale, and was feeling rather
queasy. Hermione appeared again at the doorway, told them that she was
going to bed, and left quickly. Ron and Harry suddenly felt very tired, and
although it was still quite early they got ready for bed, and then tried to
get to sleep. But sleep didn't come. Harry heard Seamus and Dean and
Neville come to bed, but he felt too tired to speak to them and pretended
to be asleep. However he didn't get to sleep, until late the next morning,
and then it seemed like only minutes that he was asleep before everyone
around him was getting up for the first day back at school. Harry sat up
feeling exhausted. He got dressed, and went down to the common room
realising that he didn't have his timetable or know who the prefects were
out of his year. On the large notice board he found a list, with the chosen
prefect for the year. To his surprise he found Hermione as the Gryffindor
prefect. She hadn't told him. He supposed that he hadn't really given her
the chance yesterday. Still he was a little disappointed that she hadn't
told him. Next to it, he found his timetable pinned to the board with a
golden lion pin. It gave a small squeaky roar as he pulled it out to read
his timetable. To his great disappointment he found that first lesson was
double potions with his most hated teacher, Professor Snape. Just then Ron
came down the stairs rubbing his eyes and looking as tired as Harry felt.
"Why didn't you wake me?" Ron complained.
"Sorry, I just needed to be alone a bit, you didn't tell me that Hermione's
a prefect."
Ron suddenly grinned,
"Well who else would you expect to be out of Gryffindor, she's delighted,"
He put on a high squeaky voice, "Oh I can't believe they chose me, oh I'm
so happy". Harry suddenly noticed Hermione coming down the stairs, and
kicked Ron sharply on the shins,
"Ow!" yelled Ron, but stopped anyway.
"Good morning, I can't believe that we've got Snape first- great way to
start the year." Hermione said brightly, as they followed her out of the
common room and down to the great hall for breakfast.The last thing I need is a morning with Snape, thought Harry as he shivered
in the dungeons waiting for the lesson to start. Ron and Hermione were
looking equally unhappy, but to their immense surprise the wizard that let
them into the dungeon was not Snape. In fact it wasn't even a wizard. A
witch with short cut mousy brown hair, and small round glasses stood at the
door.
"Good morning fifth years, it's nice to meet you. My name is Professor
Nosbod and I will be taking over from Professor Snape."
"Where's Snape?" whispered Ron to no one in particular, but no one had an
answer for him.
For the first time in all his time at Hogwarts Harry enjoyed his potions
lesson.
"Right," began Professor Nosbod," You are well under way with your potions
course, so today we will concentrate on transforming potions. Potions have
been used for many centuries to change people in magical ways. As you may
imagine this can be dangerous, so you are not taught any of these until
this year. For this reason I will expect you to act your age and there is
to be no messing about. If you are not concentrating there can be some
disastrous consequences." Harry could see Malfoy grinning at Goyle and
Crabb. Harry didn't like it at all, but forced himself to listen to
Professor Nosbod,
"For this reason I need you to put your bags under the table and keep your
aisles clear." The class looked at her rather scathingly, but complied.
"Today," she continued, "We will be making weightlessness potions. These
are often used instead of broomsticks. However the effect will only last
for a few minutes, so be warned," The next hour was spent gently distilling
bubbling cauldrons, carefully adding lion tail roots and a hair of unicorn.
The fumes from the cauldrons accumulated and swirled around in a purple and
blue fine mist. After adding the final ingredient (tail feather of a cloud
bird), the potion was poured into large glass bottles and became a
brilliant sky blue. Professor Nosbod went around all the bottles before she
would let anyone take any. Eventually she passed all the potions, even
Neville's which was a rather vivid, electric blue. She gave out silver
thimbles and Harry and his friends rather cautiously dipped their thimbles
in the swirling potion. Harry looked at Ron, who was looking equally
apprehensive, before closing his eyes and swallowing the potion in one
gulp. It tasted of coconut, but nothing felt any different. Harry opened
his eyes and his first thought was it's all gone purple. He could only see
blue and purple swirling before his eyes. Then strangely Ron's head
appeared out of the mist,
"Check this out," he said. "This is cool, look" and he suddenly dived.
Harry suddenly realised, he was standing in the air. "Come on, just pretend
you're swimming." Harry made weak arm movements, he suddenly found himself
moving forwards, he pushed harder with his arms and began moving across the
room. His arms brushed against something soft, and Neville passed him ghost-
like in the purple mist. Harry headed downwards and came out of the cloud
and saw the tables below him. Above him the purple cloud seemed to have
many body parts that appeared and then disappeared again randomly.
Professor Nosbod was sitting at her desk making large colourful bubbles out
of her wand that shimmered and floated up towards the writhing cloud. She
smiled and waved to Harry. He waved back and then swam back to join the
others. After diving and doing several summersaults he heard Professor
Nosbod ringing a silver bell. Harry and the class gently floated down and
landed at their desks. Dean couldn't resist doing one last summersault.
Harry looked around and couldn't see Malfoy or Crabb. Goyle was standing
looking shifty by his desk. Harry nudged Ron.
"Where do you think those two are?"
"Dunno, they still up there?" But before Harry could answer Madame Nosbod
was counting down seconds on a large silver clock she was holding in her
hands. When she had finished Harry suddenly felt an overwhelming sinking
feeling. He felt his whole body was made of lead. His knees buckled and he
fell to the floor, around him most of the class were in the same position.
Harry rolled over and was just in time to see Malfoy and Crabb fall from
the remainder of the purple mist. Malfoy landed on the edge of a desk with
a heavy crack and then fell onto the floor. Goyle landed into Seamus and
Dean's cauldron bottom first and was stuck there. Around Harry most of the
Gryffindors were rolling about laughing, and even some of the Slytherins
were managing small smiles. Malfoy stood up, and slunk to the back of the
crowd of Slytherins. Goyle however was frantically trying to pull himself
out of the cauldron but was only succeeding in getting stuck further into
it. His face was bright red with effort and embarrassment. Professor Nosbod
hurried over and whispered a few words. The cauldron immediately became as
flat as a pancake, and Goyle fell out, rolling over on to the floor at
Professor Nosbod's feet.
"I suppose you think it's funny hiding up there," she shouted. "Well that's
ten points from Slytherin" Then she turned around to face the rest of the
class smiling. "Now I expect you are all feeling a little heavy, the
feeling will wear off I promise. Now for homework please write up exactly
the formula for this potion and research possible applications for everyday
use. Also I would like you to research the history of shrinking potions for
next lesson. I want 80 inches in total." The class looked shocked. Even
Hermione thought that this was a bit much, but before anyone could complain
Professor Nosbod announced that the class was dismissed.
In the afternoon was History of Magic, which was unanimously, voted the
most boring of lessons. However Harry had been mildly looking forward to
this lesson ever since buying the book that he couldn't read. There must be
something interesting in it if you couldn't read it on your own. Harry was
not to be disappointed. The class lined up outside their usual classroom.
The ghost that was their history of magic teacher ushered them in. The
mysterious books were placed on the table. A lot of the class looked at
them warily, obviously aware of the consequences of opening them.
"Today" began Professor Binns, "you will begin to learn about modern
history. Some wizards of history disagree about when precisely modern
history begins, but for us this term it will begin with the rise to power
of He Who Must Not Be Named. He is of a dark wizard kind that has not been
seen in the United Kingdom since the reign of Hitcek in the thirteenth
century." Harry looked around his class. He didn't think he'd ever seen the
class so attentive. Even Neville was sitting straight in his chair, his
eyes wide open.
"The rise of Hitcek and the crimes he committed will be studied more fully
when you take your NEWTs in the next two years. However some of the detail
when we will be studying You Know Who may be distressing for some of us
amongst us." When he said this he seemed to be staring at Harry in
particular. Harry stared back uncomfortably.
"Professor Dumbledore believes in the light of recent events it is best for
you to know the history of our time even though it may cause some distress.
Firstly I would like you to look at the first chapter" The class hesitated.
"It is all right, you have my permission to do so," he said in a slightly
louder voice, and Harry had the feeling that the books were listening, and
then on everyone's desk the books suddenly bloomed and opened at Chapter 1.
"Right please could you read the introduction to Dark magic and it's brief
history." The rest of the lesson was spent in a deathly quiet as the class
read with horror about the history of Dark Magic. Harry could immediately
see why this was a restricted book. The first chapter was called The Chair
of Seolfar.
"The struggle between dark and good magic has been continuing since Lord
Faulmoyrt and Lord Nightenbon, the first wizards and constantly battling.
In the famous battle of Grainstooth, Lord Faulmoyrt was defeated, but
instead of allowing himself to be killed he transfigured himself into what
is now known as the Chair of Seolfar. Only a direct heir of Lord Faulmoryt
could sit on this chair, of a free will, and be transformed into a Dark
Lord who could take Lord Faulmoyrt's place in the struggle for control.
Once a Dark Lord had been appointed by the chair, the chair became a tool
of the Dark Force.
Victims could be forced into the chair. The chair grows over the victim,
forcing the hapless victim to reveal any secrets, and perform many types of
torture, and can kill a wizard. However the most well-known and feared
power of the Chair of Seolfar was the Kallish Curse. This meant that a
person's soul was sucked out, similar to the Dementor's kiss, but was
replaced with a desire to serve the Dark Lord. He was subject to the Dark
Lord's wishes even if it was to slay his own family or thrust a knife into
his own chest. This was feared worst than even the impervius curse, as the
victim could never recover and would eventually disintegrate..
Harry looked around the class. It was absolutely silent, and Harry felt
cold despite the warm sunlight filtering through the thick windows and
making sunbeams dance. Harry slowly read to the end of the chapter, which
listed the ways that the Chair of Seolfar had been used to the Dark Lord's
advantage throughout history. The Chair of Seolfar and the castle of Lord
Voldemort were kept open as a museum. At the time there was a great debate
as to whether the Chair of Seolfar should be destroyed or whether it should
be kept as a museum piece. They were both saved and opened as the Museum of
Dark Arts, on the Island of Clre, however closed through lack of visitors
eight years after it opened. The castle was now deserted and five years ago
an inspector had discovered that the silver chair was missing. The action
had been attributed to collectors of dark wizard memorabilia. Eventually
Professor Binns, told the books to shut which they did obediently.
" Your homework tonight is a parchment on the history of the Chair of
Seolfar, and the ways it can be used. Please include a section on whether
you believe the chair should have been destroyed, and your thoughts on the
future. Your books will allow you to look over this chapter again, however
it will not let anyone else but its owner read the text, and the book will
not allow you to read any other chapter." Again Harry got the feeling that
he was saying this to the books as well as the class.
The Gryffindors were quieter than usual and weren't even amused at one of
Fred and George's Canary Creams accidentally left in the common room and
eaten by Dennis Creavy. Many of them were considering the lesson and
wondering if Lord Voldemort would be bringing the Chair of Seolfar back
into service, if the rumors were to be believed.
The following morning however the Gryffindors had forgotten about the
previous day, or at least pushed it to the back of their minds. Their first
lesson was Defense Against the Dark Arts, and Ron and Harry were especially
looking forward to seeing the Dark Arts Teacher closer up,
"I don't see what you are so excited about," Hermione said loftily, "Looks
aren't everything you know." Ron made a little snigger and whispered
"Lockhart" rather loudly. Hermione glared at him.
As they gathered outside their classroom the door gently creaked open.
Sitting on one of the tables her legs crossed, and wearing tight green
shorts was their new teacher. She smiled seductively as the class made
their way to their usual desks.
"Good morning," she began, "My name is Professor Jenai, and it is my
privilege to teach you in this demanding year up to your OWLS. I hope you
are prepared for a hard year." She stared at them all with piercing green
eyes before continuing, "Your previous teachers have left me something to
go on. This year however we will be looking at the ways which in you are
most likely to come into contact with the Dark Arts as Lord Voldemort
regains his power." At this the class gasped. This was the first time that
they had heard a teacher say You Know Who's name, apart from Dumbledore. It
was a great taboo to speak Lord Voldemort's name. Some of the class looked
impressed, others like Neville shrank back in their seats and looked around
as if they expected him to appear in their classroom. Professor Jenai spoke
quietly, but every ear was straining to catch her words,
"If you are afraid of just a name, then I have indeed a lot to teach you.
Fear of the name will not help you. Fear of the Dark Lord maybe justified,
it is many years since the Dark forces have been so concentrated into one
individual, but if you can't even hear his name, then you better leave
now." Her eyes swept the room, daring anyone to move. They all stayed glued
to their seats.
"Well done, you have passed the first lesson." She said after a pause, "
Today we will be looking at the curses that are commonly used by the Dark
Lord and his servants. I know that Professor Moody," she said this with
some contempt. Harry knew she was referring to Barty Crouch who had
pretended to be their teacher last year, but not all the class knew the
full story, "taught you the three unforgivable curses. Only one of these
can be resisted fully, can you remember which one it was," Hermione's hand
was straight in the air, other cautiously followed. Professor Jenai
indicated Hermione with her wand,
"The impervius curse Professor"
"Correct girl. What's your name?"
"Hermione, Professor."
"Well Hermione, I believe Professor Moody demonstrated the power of some of
these curses to you, did he not,"
"Yes Professor."
"And was there any of you that could resist it?"
"Only Harry Potter". Professor Jenai's green eyes raked at Harry.
"Interesting. Would you demonstrate this, but please if you do not want to,
I understand." Harry felt conflicting voices inside him. He didn't think he
could face it after his ordeal with Lord Voldemort, just a few months
earlier. However he couldn't refuse in front of the class, they would think
he'd lost his nerve, so he reluctantly nodded.
"Good," she said sharply, "You can still face up to your fear. No I won't
put you through that humiliation again. It is not the time or the place."
Harry had the feeling he had just been tested and felt slightly angry.
However Professor Jenai was continuing,
"Today we will investigate how to tell if someone is under the influence of
the Kallish curse, or the Impervius Curse. Will anyone volunteer to have
the Impervius Curse placed on them." Hermione turned to Harry and
whispered,
"The ministry really aren't going to like this." Harry raised his eyebrows
but said nothing. There were several volunteers, Professor Jenai picked
Parvati, and instructed her to come to the front of the class where she
performed the unforgivable curse. Parvati however appeared as if nothing
happened, "It's not worked" Parvati said incredulously, and walked back to
her seat. Professor Jenai however remained quiet, her eyes appeared to be
unfocused. There was a long silence, when no one seemed to know what to do.
Ron stared at Professor Jenai in amazement, eventually whispering to Harry
and Hermione,
"Do you think we better see if she's alright or anything." Harry shrugged.
Eventually Hermione leapt to her feet, and went over to Parvati, and looked
closely at her,
"What are you doing?" hissed Ron. Hermione then leant over and pulled
Parvati's hair.
"What are you doing?' yelled Lavender who had leapt up, and was on the
verge of hitting Hermione who suddenly turned to the class,
"She's still under the curse" she said simply. Professor Jenai, sat up and
smiled.
"Yes, you're right Hermione." Parvati now looked round at the class,
looking a little shocked that no-one had realised that it wasn't her that
was sitting in her seat.
"I hope I have demonstrated to you the power of the Impervius Curse. You
are not likely to recognize anyone under the spell of a powerful wizard. A
powerful dark wizard would be able to control up to ten wizards while still
being able to seem outwardly normal. I however am not that strong in the
dark wizardry, and I would like to stay that way too," she added. "However
I was able to keep Parvati under the curse. You will have noticed that it
took all my power to keep her under my control. What else did you notice?"
Hermione's arm shot straight up,
"She wasn't blinking, and didn't respond to me pulling her hair."
"Correct Hermione, a less strong wizard will not be able to have the
concentration to maintain normal bodily functions such as blinking and
reflex actions. However please remember that a strong dark wizard will be
able to control even these, and so it will be impossible to tell whether
they are under the curse or not. The other type of total control is the
Kallish curse. This relies on the Chair of Seolfar, and so I cannot
demonstrate it even if I wanted. Please open your books and read about it."In the evening Harry found himself surrounded by Fred and George Weasley
who marched him to a quiet corner.
"Hi Harry. This may come as a bit of a shock, but we're the joint Quidditch
captains now Wood's left" began Fred.
"McGonegall thought it would do us good to have a responsibility," grinned
George.
"We've been told about your special circumstances, you can't practice, but
you are so good you don't need to practice, this year we are going to win,
OK."
"We'll still be practicing of course, but without all those squiggly little
diagrams of Woods!" finished George. Harry looked a little gobsmacked, the
Weasley twins as Quidditch captains, what was Professor McGonegall thinking
of? Eventually he spoke,
"Who's replacing Wood as keeper then?"
"Oh we've found just the person, name's Elizabeth, well Lizzy Ferkell,
she's a year below you, but she's good."
"Not as good as Wood," interrupted Fred. "She's the one over there" he said
pointing at a pink faced, bushy haired girl chattering loudly with a group
of Gryffindors. Harry only knew her vaguely, she, he remembered was quite
noisy, but alright really.
"Anyway" George was saying, " Our first match is next month against
Slytherin, and we're going to win!" Harry grinned weakly.
"I'm really sorry I can't practice, Dumbledore said I couldn't."
"'S'all right we understand" and then the twins were gone. Harry found his
way over to Hermione and Ron and quickly filled them in.
"I can't believe they didn't tell me" fumed Ron.
"I expect they only just heard," soothed Hermione,
"Huh" grunted Ron but he looked a little happier. "Who's replacing Wood?"
"Lizzy Ferkell, she's a year younger than us, she doesn't look like a
Quidditch player, but Fred and George say she's good. Anyway are we going
to get on with that work Professor Jenai set us?"It was several days before they had their first Care of Magical Creatures.
Hagrid told Harry confidentially that he was going to keep away from
dangerous creatures. Harry commiserated, but secretly he was very glad that
they wouldn't be in any danger from some of Hagrid's pets like the Blast
Ended Skrewts. The class gathered on the lawn in front of Hagrid's hut and
waited for Hagrid to appear. There was some discussion about which
creatures they were going to deal with this year. Nearly everyone in the
class had been hurt by one of Hagrid's creatures at one time or another.
The Slytherins came to join them. Malfoy said loudly,
"I wonder where that half giant is now, too busy eating someone for
breakfast." Harry turned to face Malfoy's sneering drawl.
"What did you say?" Harry demanded.
"This is the last lesson I'm going to spend with that overgrown goof. My
father doesn't want me associated with such company." Malfoy looked
triumphant. Harry was just about to reply that he didn't think anyone would
miss a slug like Malfoy, when Hagrid appeared loaded down with a huge pile
of boxes. The boxes were clear, and inside Harry could see an arrangement
of odd-looking leaves. The class looked at these glass cases with interest.
There was some movement under the leaves, but there was no sign of any
creatures. Hagrid gave each student one of the boxes. Hagrid stood in front
of the Gryffindors and Slytherins and beamed at them.
"Today," he began rather gruffly, "We're gonna look at fairies." There was
a little hiss that ran round the students. "Has anyone seen a fairy?"
Seamus was the only person to put up his hand,
"I think I saw one on a holiday to Ireland." He said rather hesitantly.
Hagrid grinned,
"They are a bit shy, so it's no wonder you've not seen them. Now fairies is
generally found in woodland glens or glades. Do yer know what fairies start
as?" he asked. A few people put up their hands. As usual Hermione was
first. Hagrid pointed to her happily,
"They start as larvae, which then build themselves a cocoon." Hagrid beamed
at Hermione.
"Yeah that's right. Then after a month they emerge as adult fairies. Now
what yer got 'ere is the cocoons. They should be ready for 'atching 'bout
now." The class stared at the glass cases in fascination. "Now fairies are,
as I said, fairies are a bit shy, but they are also very vain.and
quarrelsome. If you annoy a fairy be very careful, they may hurt you."
Seamus asked incredulously
"How can a fairy hurt us, they're only a couple of inches tall." Hagrid
looked at him seriously,
"Don't underestimate them, they're more likely to pull your hair than
anything, but fairies have been known to scratch a person's eyes out, and
poison their enemies, so be careful not to offend them.
"So to keep them sweet you'll need to give them a little present as they
emerge, a knut will do, or I've got some flowers here. You'll need to talk
nicely to 'em as well, compliment them, say they've got a nice dress or
something." Hagrid was interrupted by a squeal from Lavendar,
"It's coming out, it's hatching." The class gathered around Lavendar's
glass case. From under the pile of exotic looking leaves a tiny little girl
was standing. She had wings that stretched upwards and shimmered a
beautiful pink. She was wearing a simple pink dress, and her golden hair
cascaded onto her shoulders in bouncy curls. Around her head was a circle
of miniature pink roses. She would have looked beautiful if it hadn't been
for her cross, angry face. She stamped her feet, enraged, and made a high-
pitched buzzing. Hagrid bent down and picked a daisy that was by his
enormous foot. He opened the lid of the glass box, and gave it to the fairy
saying at the same time,
"You've got a lovely dress on dear, and pink really suits you," Hagrid
looked so funny talking to a fairy only a three inches tall in such a soft
voice that
Harry wanted to laugh. But to everyone's surprise the fairy's scrunched up
face turned into a smile. She took the daisy and rubbed her face with it
making softer buzzes. Hagrid spoke quietly to the class,
"See that's how you do it, if you want Lavendar, you can have my fairy,
I'll keep this one. Once they're 'atched they'll be your friend for a few
days until they completely reach adulthood when they'll want to find a
mate." By this time the other piles of leaves were rustling and Hagrid left
them to sweet talk their fairies. Harry's was one of the last to hatch so
he had the pleasure of watching the rest of the class looking extremely
foolish trying to compliment the fairies on anything they could think of.
Eventually Harry's leaves stirred and out came a fairy in a shimmering
green dress. Her wings were an exquisite turquoise and she was nearly the
size of Harry's hand. She had a crown of bluebells. Like all the others she
emerged buzzing crossly and flew about the glass box in a fury. Harry,
however was prepared. He'd got a daisy on the palm of his hand along with a
bronze knut. The fairy softly landed on Harry's hand and picked up the
flower and the money. Then to Harry's surprise she flew up to Harry's face
and gave what Harry thought was a kiss on his nose. Harry blushed, and at
his side Ron laughed. Hagrid returned from his hut bearing a large tray.
The students now had a little fairy buzzing round his or her head, or
sitting on the ground next to them. Hagrid spoke,
"Now as I said fairies 'll stay with yer for a little bit, but only if yer
give them food, otherwise they'll go off lookin' for food and won't come
back. I've got here crumb cakes, blossom seeds and leaf biscuits, there's
also dew juice if you want to give them a drink. Now as I said if you want
them to stay with you feed them or they'll go." Most of the boys weren't as
impressed with the fairies as the girls, and decided that their fairies
could go and find their own food. Most of the girls however took some of
the tiny biscuits, seeds and cakes and gave them to their respective
fairies. They were interrupted by muffled squeals coming from Malfoy's
direction. Malfoy's fairy, a small boy in a sky blue shorts and shirt, was
screaming shrilly and pulling Malfoy's hair and scratching madly at his
face. There was a blur of blue wings and Malfoy was running towards the
castle waving his arms trying to fend off the angry fairy. The fairy then,
to avoid being hit by Malfoy's flaying arms, had picked up some stones from
by the lake and pelted Malfoy with them as he ascended the steps to
Hogwarts. The Gryfindors rolled around in the grass, tears in their eyes.
Even Hagrid let out a small smile. Just then the faint ring of the bell
echoed across from the school.
"All those who want to keep their fairy help yourself to food. Come back if
yer need anymore" Hagrid told them.
When the rest of the class had gone Hagrid invited Harry, Ron and Hermione
into his hut.
"That was a great lesson" Hermione told him. Hagrid beamed at her again.
"I've enrolled to do TOADS," Hagrid told them proudly.
"What's toads?" Harry asked puzzled,
"Teaching Older And Dumber Students" Hermione told him quickly.
"Yeah, and I can do the course from here" Hagrid said looking very pleased
with himself. "It'll help me teach yer all. I've got it all written down
here, the course is called Teaching Care of Magical Animals. It's already
helped me. I've written down all the stuff we're going to do this year." He
showed them a carefully written out parchment with each of their lessons
written in golden ink. Ron, Hermione and Harry looked at each other in
amazement. Hagrid was acting like a real teacher. Hermione was pouring over
the lesson plan, her fairy was perched on her shoulder.
"So we're doing Jenkins Birds next week?" she asked.
"Yer" Hagrid told her happily, " That's if they arrive on time, I've 'ad to
order them specially. Would yer all like a cup of tea?"





--------




Chapter 7 Broomsticks, Coffins and RopeHarry soon got back into the routine of term, however he deeply missed the
long Quidditch practices and as the hot days turned into the warm purple
twilight that cloaked the players, Harry watched miserably from the castle.
There were two major differences from previous years; the homework they
received was huge, and many hours were spent pouring over books in the
library and studying in the Gryffindor Common Room. The other major
difference was the guards around the school, giants. This caused uproar at
first, but now it was a common sight to see men of ten or twelve feet high,
skulking around the school searching for any intruders. Hagrid confided in
Harry that they were actually distant relatives, his uncles' father's
second cousins, or something. Dumbledore had banned the Daily Prophet from
the students, as he believed it would distract them from their studies.
This meant wild rumours including occasional whispers that Voldemort had
assuredly returned. Harry even heard in the dining hall one breakfast the
rumour that Karkaroff was dead. Harry however gave little thought to the
happenings of the world outside of Hogwarts. He had enough to think about.
The Slytherins had found out that Harry wasn't training for Quidditch, and
were very confused. At first they thought he was injured, but as Harry
appeared to be in perfect health this rumour was quickly quashed. Their
next ideas were that either he was in trouble, and banned, or that he was
too scared to go outside. Harry didn't know which was worst, the
Slytherin's taunting him because he was afraid of dementors or giants, or
Ravenclaws and Hufflepuffs telling him they were very sorry about his
punishment, however he thought it best to keep the real reason he wasn't
playing secret. It might lead to awkward questions. Harry was also nervous
about the forthcoming Quidditch match. It was over a year since he'd played
Quidditch in a match, and any match with the Slytherins was bound to be
rough. Still he was looking forward to the freedom of being on his broom,
on his own, with his only worry, searching for a tiny golden ball. The
first match was soon upon them. Harry felt the usual butterflies circling
in his stomach as he attempted to eat his breakfast before the match. He'd
spent the week trying to avoid the legs of the Slytherins, who had somehow
found that he was playing, and were now determined to trip him up.
Temperatures had been running high with both Slytherin and Gryffindor
relishing the chance to trade insults. We've got to win, at least three
Gryffindor's would tell Harry every day. Even Fred and George were feeling
the pressure, which was something Harry had never seen before. As Harry got
changed into his red and gold strip, George approached him looking nervous,
"Look if we've ever needed to get the snitch early, and get an early win,
it's today. No pressure or anything."
Harry emerged onto the smooth Quidditch Pitch his trusty Firebolt under his
arm. He mounted, and immediately he felt calmer. He quickly flew high above
the crowds seated in the terraces. He could see for miles, beyond the
Forbidden Forest, and behind Hogwarts, and over the lake. Harry suddenly
felt very happy and peaceful, away from all his worries. Down, what seemed
miles he could make out tiny blobs, and he was sure he could make out the
tall hat and grey beard of Professor Dumbledore. Harry felt so free he did
a loop the loop, he bent low over his broom, sped very fast, pointed his
broom downwards, and round, and then he was back upright again. Harry felt
exhilarated. He did a few more just for fun. All too soon he heard the bell
clang indicating the start of the match. Harry flew a little lower, and
started to search for the snitch. Lee Jordan was busy with his subjective
commentary regularly punctuated by Professor McGonegall, but Harry wasn't
listening. The game was already becoming nasty. The Slytherin beaters, were
doing a very good job, Lizzy had only just missed a bludger in the face,
but was saved by a quick beat by Fred, which skimmed the bridge of her
nose. After almost an hour, Harry had still not seen even a sniff of the
snitch. Malfoy hadn't either, and they were both becoming hot and bothered,
while the beaters, and catchers below were hot and sweaty. The score stood
at 100 to 120 to Slytherin, but it was closely fought. Harry was getting
extremely thirsty as the midday sun beat fiercely on his head. He couldn't
keep his mind from wandering. He remembered the Quidditch World Cup, and
Krum, and the incredible Wronski Feint. Harry immediately saw the best
opportunity to test the Wronski Feint. He circled a few times, over the
pitch watching Lizzy spectacularly saving a shot hurled at the furthest
hoop. Harry suddenly dived, as he'd never dived before. He went straight
down, out of the corner of his eye he saw Malfoy follow him. Harry
concentrated on a small patch of grass, around him the players of both
teams had stopped to watch him in amazement. At the last possible moment,
Harry pulled out of the dive, and feeling the damp grass touching his
knees, he shot back up to the level of the goal hoops. Below him Harry
could see Malfoy, his broom driven hard into the cracked earth. Even from
this distance Harry could see that it looked distinctly bent. Malfoy was
lying on the grass, but appeared to be more winded than anything else.
Harry was abruptly aware of the huge cheers that had erupted from the
stand. Even some of the Slytherins were cheering. Surely such a move had
not been seen at Hogwarts. Malfoy was now getting up, and throwing his bent
broom angrily on the floor. However he wouldn't have a school broom, so
mounted his bent Nimbus and took to the air. However the impact had had an
affect on the broom. It no longer flew smoothly, and would make odd bucking
motions. Harry returned to his original height, pleased with his success.
Malfoy appeared a little distance away. He was furious, and was telling
Harry that he would have to pay for a new broom, when Harry spotted the
Snitch. He immediately plummeted towards the ground, right underneath
Malfoy, hearing Malfoy's angry voice yelling above him,
"Do you think I'm stupid enough to fall for that again," Harry's fingers
closed around the golden ball, its wings beat futilely against his hands.
He lifted it high, did a last loop and headed down to the pitch. The crowds
in the stands were wild. Gryffindor had beaten Slytherin. No one could
remember such a match. The Gryffindor team landed around Harry, and lifted
him high into the air. Harry was euphoric. The feasting lasted well into
the night. Ron, kept telling Harry,
"That Wronski Feint, incredible, even Krum couldn't do better" and "The
look on Malfoy's face, the best moment of my life" However the evening was
finished properly when Fred announced to the common room that the
Slytherins were considering dropping Malfoy, after his terrible mistake.
Over a large jug of Butter beer, Harry saw Lizzy, chattering with her
friends. Her eyes were bright, and her cheeks pink. Ron was watching her
closely. Hermione interrupted his thoughts, as she remarked that possibly
the only disappointment to the day was that Snape hadn't been there to see
Slytherin's defeat.Late that night Harry eventually found himself in bed. The window was open
letting a cool breath of air creep in. Harry fell asleep almost at once,
and dreamt.
Harry was standing in a graveyard. It was dark, and the only light came
from two fires lit at opposite ends of a grave. The black shadows of the
gravestones danced menacingly in the firelight. Harry knew that this wasn't
a nice place to be. The dark trees leered at him in the dark, but there was
something else there, something evil. He could just make out three people.
One of them he knew by the pain in his scar was Voldemort. A man was
digging at the grave. The whole scene seemed to be deadly quiet. There was
just the scrape, grating rasp of the shovel, and the dull thud as the soil
mounted at the side. What were they doing? The second wizard was bent over
the fire, throwing some kind of powder into the greedy flames. This
resulted in a hiss from the fire. Unexpectedly the digger hit some kind of
wooden box, and climbed out of the grave. Using his wand the coffin was
lifted out of the grave. The tallest wizard, Harry now knew must be
Voldemort, bent over the coffin, and appeared to be talking. Voldemort took
out a silver dagger, and held his wrist over the coffin. The knife glowed a
light blue, and Voldemort held it aloft. With the knife he made a deep cut
up his pale forearm. Harry tried to close his eyes to shut out the image,
but he couldn't. Voldemort's black blood dripped onto the coffin. The man
that had stood over the fire, then joined Voldemort, carrying his wand. He
touched all four corners of the coffin, leaving behind a sharp blue flame
that danced evilly on the lid, before engulfing the whole coffin, and
Voldemort's arm in the fire. Voldemort withdrew his arm, and as it left
Harry could see a pale form emerging from the smoke of the burning coffin.
It curled together to produce, a thin lady. She was screaming, but not out
loud, Harry could hear her pained voice inside his head. He tried to block
it out, but it went on and on. Harry could see Voldemort talking to her,
and somehow he knew that the poor woman was answering, but against her
will. Her pitiful scream split through Harry's head, and he awoke in his
bed at Hogwarts, his scar hurting and his head aching.The next day Harry tried hard to forget the things he had seen in his
dream, but he had a sickness in the pit of his stomach which remained
throughout the day, as did the stinging of the scar. The lessons with
Professor Jenai were very interesting. The first few weeks had been a lot
of theory, but they were just moving onto practical.
One morning in late November Harry and his class were surprised to see all
the tables moved to the side of the Defense Against the Dark Arts
classroom, and instead lots of large bouncy cushions littering the floor.
Professor Jenai was at her usual place, sitting on the edge of the
teacher's desk.
"Right now fifth years. It's about time for some practical work." The class
exchanged smiles. "Now I am supposed to teach you a few basic spells to
help you if you ever get into difficulties" Again Professor Jenai's
startling green eyes were boring into Harry. He blushed slightly and
lowered his eyes. "However," she continued seductively "there is little you
can practice if you are not already in the situation, and therefore I must
teach you a little Dark Arts spell first. Now this spell is easily
blockable, and the counter spell is the ristennin charm. Make note." She
said sharply. The class fumbled for quills and parchment."Now the spell is Gwidir Taugia, and will bind the person you point your
wand at. Now in reality this is a practice spell, it will not bind tightly,
and would be fairly easy to wriggle out of. It is very unlikely that any
Dark Arts wizard worth his or her salt would use it on you. The only reason
we will use it is so you can learn how to untie people. Obviously if you
are tied up yourselves it is unlikely that you will be able to free
yourselves. You need another person to free you. The untying spell which is
of the most use, as it will counter most binding spells is Narcannen
Ristennen." The class were silent, eagerly writing down every word.
"Well then, what are you waiting for? Try it for yourselves."
Hermione paired off with Neville while Ron and Harry stood opposite each
other. Ron moved fastest and with a quick Gwidir Taugia Harry found himself
wrapped quite tightly with thick brown ropes. He could move his fingers,
but that was about all. So much for it being easy to get out of thought
Harry. Ron grinned at him and then sat down on one of the cushions.
"How about the counter-curse?" Harry demanded. Ron remained seated and
grinned at Harry completely covered with rope. Harry waddled towards him,
as fast as he could while his legs were bound in thick cord. Three steps
away from Ron he stumbled, tripped and fell headlong onto Ron, knocking
Neville flying just as Hermione said Gwidir Taugia. Hermione's spell zoomed
over Neville's head and bound Professor Jenai tightly in rope from head to
toe. The class fell silent, and stared at Hermione who was facing Professor
Jenai with her wand outstretched. There was a huge pause, and then Hermione
mumbled Narcannen Ristennen, and the ropes fell away. Her face flushed
scarlet with embarrassment, and she quickly apologized. Professor Jenai
looked angrily at Ron, and told Hermione that she understood perfectly that
it was an accident. However Hermione got a lot of angry looks from many
boys throughout the school when it was found out that she'd tied up
Professor Jenai.





--------




Chapter 8 The Fight at NightTo Harry's enduring disappointment Malfoy wasn't dropped from the Slytherin
team, however as Hermione said it was probably more because of his father's
broomsticks that his skill. However the fact that they had even considered
dropping him had made Malfoy very bitter. His remarks were even more
vindictive than usual, although without Snape skulking around Malfoy found
it hard to get revenge. The worst thing for Malfoy was the way the
Gryffindors treated Harry as their hero. However Malfoy had a new addition
to his little gang of Crabbe and Goyle. Laure Trold was a small mean second
year with mousy coloured hair and a sly smile. Unlike Crabbe and Goyle,
Trold had brains and was fond of using them for mean tricks. Hermione often
saw him in the library pouring over books trying to find new curses and
spells. One of his favourites was putting pepper potion in people's meals
so that they couldn't stop sneezing all day or when the teachers weren't
looking bewitching people's quills so they would write wrong answers. He
had had more detentions than the whole of Slytherin put together, but there
were still things that he didn't get punished for. Harry, Ron and Hermione
hated Laure almost as much as Malfoy. As Ron remarked one breakfast,
"At least Malfoy wasn't nasty to everyone." Hermione looked scathingly over
to the Slytherin table where Malfoy was talking loudly about how his father
had just bought a new house-elf. Her eyes glittered angrily,
"They're as bad as each other. I wonder what Trold is up to though, he's
always in the library and he's definitely not doing school work," she said
sniffily. Malfoy saw her look and swaggered over to her, Trold, doing a
reasonable imitation of Malfoy's swagger, behind him,
"Oh Granger," he said in his usual slimy way. "Why were you looking at our
table. wishing you could join us perhaps? Well I'm sorry, we only allow
purebloods to sit with us, we couldn't have something as dirty as you near
our food." His little gang laughed loudly. Hermione stared straight ahead,
concentrating on buttering her toast. Harry and Ron pushed back their
chairs and stood up, trying to look threatening, but there was little they
could do under the watchful eye of the teachers,
"Go play with dragons Malfoy," Harry said angrily. Malfoy suddenly flashed
out his wand and yelled
"Fernuculus!" Harry with lightening speed, born of Quidditch training,
ducked down and the curse flew harmlessly towards the ceiling. Professor
Jenai appeared next to Malfoy, looking at Malfoy with disdain,
"Improper use of magic in the school- that'll be a detention for you Malfoy
and ten points from Slytherin." She swept off without another word. Malfoy
stormed off followed by his little group. Harry, Ron and Hermione exchanged
wide smiles,
"He should know better than to do magic in front of teachers," Hermione
said happily.
"A detention!" said Ron gleefully. "That serves him right. and that was a
superb duck Harry."
"Look at the time," interrupted Hermione, "come on its transfiguration and
McGonegall will kill us if we're late." They ran up to the transfiguration
room only to find they weren't the last ones. Neville was also missing.
McGonegall had only started the register and paused at Neville's name,
"Anyone know where Neville is?" she asked pointedly. No one replied and
McGonegall glared at them as if they had hidden him somewhere. Neville
wasn't in divination either or in any of the lessons that day. Hermione was
looking quite worried as she entered the common room after Arithmancy.
"None of the teachers have seen him," she said anxiously. "Where can he
have got to? Do you think we should tell Professor Dumbledore?"
"I'm sure someone will have told him already," Ron pointed out. There was
nothing to do but go to bed. Harry had just got into his pajamas and into
bed when he noticed a small white mouse scurrying about on the floor. Harry
stared at it interestedly. It was running in straight lines, stopping and
turning in a different direction, then turning back and going the way it
came. Harry softly called out to Ron,
"Ron, you've got to look at this.Ron wake up!" Ron rolled over, rubbing his
eyes,
"What is it?" he asked sleepily.
"Just look at this mouse." By this time Dean and Seamus were watching too.
"It looks like its trying to tell us something." Dean told them.
"Yes but what?" replied Harry. The mouse continued making the same strange
movements.
"Look!" Ron said suddenly. "Letters.its spelling out something. There's an
L. and that must be an E." The mouse had stopped making funny jerking
movements and ran to the other side of the room where it started again,
running straight, turning 145 degrees and then running straight again,
"NEVILLE!" yelled Seamus. "He's spelling Neville. That mouse must be
Neville!" The mouse stopped and started to nod its head.
"What do we do now?" asked Ron.
"Lets get Hermione.she'll know what to do," Harry said. Ron ran quickly
down the stairs and returned shortly with Hermione. She looked in horror at
the small white mouse that was Neville Longbottom.
"It must be a simple transfiguration potion," she told them. "I bet that's
what Laure Trold's been doing in the library all the time."
"That's all very well," Seamus said, "but how do we get him back again?"
"Luckily I think it's fairly easy- a simple counter spell should do it,"
Hermione told them.
"Don't you think we should get him to the hospital wing?" Dean asked.
Hermione ignored him and instead pointed her wand at the mouse,
"Reversare transformatio," she said giving a small flick of her wand.
Neville appeared before them with a loud pop. He looked very miserable,
"It's no good- I should never be in Gryffindor. I can't stand up to
anyone." Anger started to mount in the dormitory,
"It's not your fault Neville, it's Malfoys and Trolds. We'll get our
revenge don't you worry." Ron told him. Neville looked at them still
unhappily,
"Malfoy sent me with a message. He says to meet him on the third floor
corridor tomorrow night and he'll finished what he started at breakfast." A
big tear slid down Neville's cheek. "I'm not fit to be a Gryffindor. Malfoy
said so. He said that I was a failure, that I shouldn't be at Hogwarts at
all." Hermione exploded,
"You're exactly in the right place Neville, don't anyone ever tell you
otherwise. The sorting hat is never wrong." Neville crept quietly into bed.
The rest of them decided to have a meeting.
"We've got to do something." Hermione told them, her eyes flashing. "This
duel. we'll go and we'll win. Malfoy doesn't care about detentions. We can
have some serious fun and we'll tell Malfoy that if he mentions anything to
a teacher then we'll tell him about Neville. We could get him expelled for
that I'm sure." The others listened excitedly.
"Yep, let's do it." Seamus said thrilled. Harry thought rather guiltily
about his promise to Professor Dumbledore but banished it when he thought
about revenge on Malfoy. Hermione was a great help, she taught them all
sorts of useful charms and curses including the star freeze, the slug-
spitting curse and werewolf curse, which made hair grow all over your body.
The Gryffindors were extremely impressed. It was nearly two o'clock when
Hermione eventually told them she was going to bed. Tiredly the boys
climbed into their beds.The next day things started to get a bit out of hand. Hermione sent Malfoy
the note telling him what she would do if there was any funny business on
his part. However the news of the challenge had leaked out and nearly every
Gryffindor in the common room at break and lunch was discussing which curse
they were going to use. At teatime Harry overheard a group of Slytherins
discussing the same. Quietly he whispered to Hermione,
"Isn't this going a bit too far. its turning into a full scale war. We're
bound to be caught." Hermione nodded,
"But its too late to back out now," she said worriedly. Neville however was
treated like a hero throughout the day. Somehow the story had become a
little distorted and throughout the school the story was being told about
how Neville had single handedly fought against ten Slytherin before being
overpowered and forced to drink the transfiguration potion. Something about
the gleam in Hermione's eye told Harry that this story had something to do
with her.That night at twelve Harry counted forty Gryffindors armed with their wands
queuing at the portrait hole, the remainder cheering them off. Hermione
and Neville led the possession, followed by Harry, Ron, Seamus, Dean and
the Weasley twins. At the end of the corridor they met nearly headless
Nick. He had a ghostly sword and huge shield, that looked almost too heavy
to hold,
"Couldn't miss out on the fun" he said almost happily. "I haven't had a
good fight since.well I'm not sure when. I'm longing to throw a few blows
at the Bloody Baron. You know, a few thrusts and parries." As they reached
the third floor corridor the Gryffindors became quiet and slowed, carefully
going round every corner incase of an ambush. They reached the third floor
without difficulty. At the end of the corridor about forty Slytherins were
waiting for them headed by Malfoy, Crabbe and Goyle.
"Where's Trold?" Hermione hissed. Malfoy stepped forward, he seemed a
little whiter under the strange flickering lights of the candles.
"Well look, couldn't face me on your own Potter- you had to bring your
friends" Malfoy said indicating the Gryffindors by a wave of his wand.
"I didn't ask them to come," Harry said hotly, "They came because of
Neville, I'll take you on anytime Malfoy, without your friends." Just then
there was a sudden noise of charging feet. The Gryffindors turned to see
another thirty Slytherins charging towards them from the opposite direction
wands outstretched. While they turned Malfoy's gang of Slytherin's drew
their wands and started cursing left, right and centre. Pandemonium
reigned. Harry watched with horror as a hundred different curses flew
across the corridor. They were making enough noise to wake the entire
school not to mention the people in Hogsmeade. Harry felt a curse whizz
past his cheek and he ducked down. Through a gap in the writhing crowd he
was just able to make out Malfoy and Trold sneaking off along the corridor.
Trust them to escape thought Harry angrily. He started to follow them. He
pushed past Millicant Bulstrode and Hermione who had dropped their wands
and were now rolling about on the floor locked in combat and stepped over
Fred Weasley who had been disabled by the leg-locker curse. Nearly-headless
Nick was having a very elaborate sword fight with the bloody baron, but had
already lost one silvery opaque arm which was lying on the floor.
Harry ran after Malfoy and Trold but they had a head start. Harry was just
able to catch them going into a small classroom on the second corridor.
Heart pounding and wand drawn he followed them in. At first he could see no-
one, but then he heard the disarming spell and his wand left his fingers.
He heard Trold say Lumos, and behind him the door shut firmly. Malfoy and
Trold were standing in front of him, grinning inanely and holding Harry's
wand.
"Totalis petoralis!" Trold said and Harry immediately felt himself under
the influence of the body bind curse. He couldn't move anything and then to
his horror he saw Laure Trold bring a knife out from his cloak.
"Lets see if this works then," he said rather wildly. Trold held the knife
out in front of him and whispered words that Harry couldn't hear and then
withdrew his hands so the knife remained quivering in the air. The
bewitched knife suddenly zoomed towards him, and past him, cutting his
cheek as it did so. Then it returned to its original position in front of
Malfoy who looked ecstatic,
"It's as good as you promised, lets have some fun." Quietly he said the
counter curse which freed Harry from the body bind curse, just as the knife
headed for Harry a second time, this time making a cut on his leg. Harry
turned and bolted for the door, just as the knife headed for his arm.
Slamming the door behind him he ran wildly down the stairs.
The knife followed him down, sometimes catching his legs, arms or face as
he skidded round pillars and through doors. The rapturous laughter of
Malfoy and Trold followed him. Harry ran blindly through corridors and flew
down stairs. He had to get back to the common room he realised. It was his
only way of escape. Harry could hear the knife whistling again towards him.
He threw himself to the floor, and the knife just missed his ear as it went
whizzing past him. Harry scrambled to his feet and continued, panting. Just
as Harry turned a corner a foot was put out and sent him flying onto the
floor. His chin met with the cold stone with a sickening crunch. Harry saw
Malfoy and Trold in front of him, their arms folded. Behind them was a girl
he only knew by sight. She had shoulder length frizzy hair and freckles
that covered her face and arms. Harry scrambled to his feet his back
against the wall, Malfoy, Trold and the girl surrounding him. The girl
looked concernedly at Harry. Harry realised that his face was covered with
a mat of blood where the knife had caught him and run down his face.
Together with the deep cuts on his arms made him look like something out of
a horror movie. He tried to talk but he couldn't move his mouth properly,
his jaw seemed to be broken. All he could do was make grunting noises. The
girl suddenly shook herself and said angrily,
"Its gone too far now Draco, let him go!" Malfoy looked furious,
"We've only just started Hathir. This'll teach him. thinking he can get
away with fighting a Malfoy. We're going to turn him into a spider and hope
someone stands on him." Malfoy raised his wand, Hathir suddenly pushed
between Malfoy and Harry. She spat her words out,
"You told me we were going to see something special Draco. This isn't
special its disgusting. To think that I ever liked you, get lost. Leave him
alone.Now!" Malfoy looked at her in disgust,
"You'd protect him over me?" he asked in disbelief. Hathir nodded her eyes
flashing. Malfoy looked beaten. He glared at Hathir as if in pain.
"If I let him go?" he asked quietly. She looked back at him.
"No.its over," she said quietly but firmly. Harry looked on in amazement.
Malfoy had a girlfriend! He couldn't believe it. Malfoy exchanged looks
with Trold,
"Then you're as bad as him," Malfoy told Hathir with venom. He and Trod
drew their wands and pointed them at her. Harry slumped against the wall.
The pain in his arms, which at first he hadn't noticed, had suddenly broken
through in a wave. Malfoy, Trold and Hathir stood waiting for someone to
make the first move. The tense silence was broken by a queer clanking from
up the corridor. All four of them turned to see a suit of armor making its
way up the darkened passage. The suit of armor was dull silver and in its
arms it carried a large shield and a glittering sword pointed directly at
Malfoy. It clanged up the corridor straight for Trold and Malfoy. Malfoy
turned and ran, Trold pointed his wand and yelled,
"Spittan limus."
There was a flash of green light and the curse bounded off the armor and
headed straight for Trold. He turned and retched. His mouth opened and
green slime erupted like a fountain covering the walls and floors with
sticky algae coloured gunk. Trold turned and ran, thick slime spraying from
his mouth every time he opened to take a breath. The knight in armor
removed his helmet and a mop of tousled black hair appeared. Neville
grinned down at them. Harry looked at Hathir and Neville and tried to say
thank you, but it came out more like,
"Grug Goo." Hathir gave them a quick smile and fled down the corridor.
Neville got out of his armor and bent down to Harry, just as Professor
McGonegall swept down the corridor,
"Never in all my life have I known." she was yelling. She stopped when she
saw Harry. "Good heavens, saints preserve us. Harry are you all right?" she
said rather weakly. Harry nodded feebly. "Come on up to the hospital wing
now," she said offering her arm. Harry took it and together they limped
off. Neville slipped into the shadows and headed back to the common room.The hospital wing was packed. Madame Pomfrey was rushing from one patient
to the next trying to reverse jelly legs, rubber legs and tenticalitus all
at once. Professor McGonegall pushed Harry to the front of the queue.
Madame Pomfrey gave them a desperate look.
"Bluot Hailjan, Minerva," she said to Professor McGonegall. "Third shelf
down, blue bottle in the medical cupboard," and she paused. "He looks like
he may need a bone mending charm for his jaw. I'll see to that later," and
she rushed off. Professor McGonegall found him a spare bed and gave him the
potion to put on his arms face and legs. Harry felt very tired and soon
went to sleep.The next morning seemed very quiet after the night before. Harry found
himself tucked in a hospital bed when Professor Dumbledore walked
purposefully towards his bed. Harry was suddenly remembered of his promise
about no midnight wanderings, let alone a full-scale war with Slytherin.
Dumbledore sat on the end of his bed and looked severely at Harry.
"I have," he began, "been talking to some of your peers about the goings on
last night. I understand you had something to do with it." Harry stared at
his sheets guiltily. "Would you like to tell me exactly what happened last
night," Dumbledore continued sternly. Harry told him everything taking care
not to embellish the story. Dumbledore listened silently until Harry had
finished. When he had, he nodded to himself and then left Harry without
another word, leaving Harry feeling sick and not from the healing potion.
After breakfast, Madame Pomfrey told him that he was free to go down to the
hall. His wounds had healed over night, but he had been left feeling rather
stiff. All the Gryffindors and Slytherins were there looking rather tired
and anxious. Professor Dumbledore stood at the front and the students were
silent as they waited for the repercussions. Dumbledore was swift and
angry,
"What happened last night was unacceptable. It will not happen again. As a
punishment there will be no outings to Hogsmeade, all those involved in the
fight confined to the library or the common rooms at break and lunch and as
from now, for one week you will be having only bread and water for meals. I
have also expelled Laure Trold for unacceptable bewitching of a knife and
the transfiguration of a student. Draco Malfoy is to be given a warning.
Another incident similar to this and he too will be expelled. That may be
all you. You may go now." The students left for their first lesson,
"All in all I think we got off rather lightly," Hermione told them.





--------




Chapter 9 Problems in potionsPotions lessons had improved infinitely since Snape had gone, and Harry now
looked forward to the chance to brew potions and experiment with the
different ingredients. However Harry was in for a shock. The class were
doing personal projects in potions, and Harry had spent hours perfecting
his shrinking potion formula. The last lesson before Christmas was the
climax to their project when they would be demonstrating the effects of
their potion. However it was not the cheery Professor Nosbod waiting for
them in the dungeon.
"Snape," said Harry involuntary. Malfoy and his pals were standing next to
him, all three grinning at Harry's expression.
"Potter, how good to see you," Snape greeted him in his oily voice. Harry
said nothing and stood behind his desk. Ron and Hermione were looking
equally disappointed.
"Today I believe you will be finishing your potions that you've been
experimenting with," Snape began. "This lesson will be assessed, so I will
expect you to all be working in silence finishing your potions which will
be tested at the end of the lesson." He grinned sadistically at Harry and
Ron. They didn't dare speak as they cut up the necessary roots, and
distilled the final stages of the potions. Snape wandered around the desks,
sipping from a silver goblet that contained a yellow steaming liquid,
congratulating the Slytherins and criticizing the Gryffindors, almost
reducing Neville to tears when he threw out the dragon's liver that Neville
had spent nearly an half an hour carefully frying. Then Snape swept out of
the room, announcing that he would be returning in a few minutes when he
expected them to have finished their potions. Almost as soon as Snape had
left the classroom Neville's cauldron began to bubble and hiss violently,
yellow and green vapours belched out of it, enveloping the classroom in a
yellow cloud smelling strongly of putrid eggs. Harry and Hermione made
their way over to the help Neville. They removed the cauldron from the
heat, and slowly the rank fumes dispersed. Through the mist Harry could
make out Snape looking furious.
"Potter!" he yelled. " Get back to your desk, Neville, for you utter
stupidity ten points from Gryffindor."
"But sir I didn't do anything." whimpered Neville.
"Silence Longbottom, another ten points from Gryffindor for cheek."
Malfoy was smirking widely. Harry put two and two together quickly.
"It was Malfoy," he whispered to Ron,
"Potter, what were you whispering" yelled Snape. "Come here, lets
demonstrate your potion first. Here." He brought out another silver cup.
"Pour it out" he demanded. Harry reluctantly took a scoop from his
cauldron. "Drink it" he said nastily. There was a small gasp from the
class.
"But sir, Professor Nosbod said we would only be trying it on rats, it's
only an experiment" said Harry in desperation.
"Drink it" repeated Snape with narrowed eyes.
"Professor" tried Hermione.
"Granger, ten points from Gryffindor and it will be a detention if I hear
another word." Hermione went red, and glared at Malfoy, who was wearing a
grin that looked big enough to split his face. Harry closed his eyes and
emptied the goblet. Immediately things started to swirl, faster and faster
until he felt sick, and then he felt himself plummeting towards the ground
at a phenomenal speed. He looked down at the floor, only a few inches from
his head. He was only a few centimetres high. Snape's boot towered, like a
mountain to one side. Harry suddenly felt fear flood through him. He
started to run, large noises seemed to be coming from above him. He whizzed
through the giant forest of feet, narrowly missing several feet on the way,
and eventually reached a table leg which seemed the size of a small house.
He sheltered in the shadow of it, breathing heavily. A pair of large black
boots the size of double decker buses appeared by his shelter. A large pink
hand reached down and grabbed Harry around the waist. The fingers were
holding him far too tight, and Harry had difficulty breathing. The pain in
his ribs was immense. He was lifted up and placed on a table. Large faces
were staring at him. He could hear several girlish voices squealing.
Probably Lavendar and Parvati thought Harry. Suddenly he felt very warm,
and he felt his body growing, and suddenly found himself standing on the
desk, the class looking up at him in awe. He slid off the table, his chest
seemed on fire. He also felt sick, and couldn't help himself retching in
front of the class. Snape used his wand to clear up the mess on the floor,
and then ordered them back to their desks so he could dictate their
homework.
"Silence!" he growled when Ron opened his mouth to speak. He started
dictating, taking a sip from his silver goblet. Harry was glaring crossly
at his parchment, trying to ignore the shooting pains across his chest,
when he was interrupted by gasps from the class. Snape was shrinking, he
was already knee size, and still getting smaller. Several of the
Gryffindors couldn't suppress small laughs. The Slytherins were looking
with amazement at their teacher, now less than an inch high. The miniature
Snape was pulling his tiny wand from his pocket and muttering squeaky small
words. For a split second Snape's head blossomed hugely in contrast to his
tiny body. Then Snape emerged at his original size, red faced and furious.
Harry had never seen him looking so angry. He looked at Harry with a glare
of utmost hatred.
"Potter, I will have you expelled for this. The rest of you get out of my
sight now. Potter you will pay, I will speak to Professor Dumbledore
immediately. Wait here." And he was gone before Harry could even protest
his innocence. The class collected their things and walked out of the
classroom silently. Hermione and Ron looked at Harry with nervously, but
left without saying anything in case Snape returned. Harry could hear
Malfoy laughing loudly down the corridor. Harry stood miserably and looked
at the pile of yellowing parchment piled on Snape's grandly carved desk.
One of the pieces of parchment looked like it had some kind of glowing
picture on it. Looking round him just in case Snape had returned Harry
pulled it out slightly. Another tug and the small corner was out. Harry
suddenly felt chill. There on the parchment glowing green and black was the
skull and snake, the feared signature of Voldemort. What was Snape doing
with a letter from Voldemort? He stared in bewilderment. Dumbledore had
said that Snape was once a Death Eater, had he returned to the Dark Lord's
service now Voldemort had arisen and was gaining power? Without warning
Harry was hit round the head so hard he fell sprawling on the floor. Snape
was standing over him, white with anger,
"How dare you, how dare you? Those are my papers! Dumbledore says without
proof I can't expel you, well I tell you, you will not get away with this,
I will take fifty points from Gryffindor, and you will have five
detentions. Now get out of here now, and if you ever put a foot even a toe
out of line, I will personally make sure that you are not only expelled,
but Granger and Weasley are too, after I have used some restricted potions
to my advantage. Go. Go." He shouted into Harry's face, his own face
contorted in a white rage. Harry knowing any argument was useless left the
classroom miserably. Why did Snape have to pick on him? Wasn't it bad
enough to have You Know Who trying his hardest to kill him without Snape
and Malfoy trying to get him expelled? And what was the dark mark doing on
a letter to Snape? He made his way up to the Gryffindor Common Room. Ron
and Hermione were bitterly discussing the unfairness of it.
"He even made Malfoy pick you up." Harry showed them the bruises around his
waist. They were large and purple. Hermione was outraged,
"We should complain, it's so unfair, a week's worth of detentions. I know
you didn't do anything, I was with you. We should tell Professor
McGonegall."
What's that going to do, it will only make things worse,"
"Yes, but fifty points from Gryffindor for something that you didn't do,
and then another thirty points lost in the lesson. It's so unfair.." And
Hermione faltered. Harry told them about the letter he had seen.
"But Snape wouldn't join Voldemort, not after Snape betrayed him to
Dumbledore, he wouldn't would he?" said Hermione looking shocked.
"It wouldn't surprise me, I've never liked him" said Ron, as if he was the
only one who had ever hated Snape.Harry spent much of the next few days wondering what horrible jobs Snape
would get him doing in his detentions. He didn't have very long. Just three
days after the potions lesson Harry received a parchment that said simply,
Detention, Astrology Tower 11:00pm.
"What could you possibly be doing up there, and at that time?" said
Hermione incredulously when Harry showed her the note.
"I don't know," said Harry dully. He didn't think there was any possibility
of it being remotely nice, and knowing Snape's present mood, it would be
painful. The rest of the day was spent discussing what on earth Harry would
be doing up the astrology tower. Ron was convinced it would involve a large
troll, whereas Hermione was thinking that it would involve testing all the
potions that the class had made up. None of this made Harry feel any
better. Ron had just suggested that it could be subduing a fully grown
dragon, or throwing himself off the tower, at the back of Transfiguration
when Professor McGonagall appeared behind him, and made Ron fall off his
seat as she demanded to know what was so important to talk about when they
were supposed to be studying advanced switching spells. But when Ron
mumbled that they were discussing Snape's detention, she looked at Harry
with concern.
"Yes I heard about that little incident. You didn't have anything to do
with it did you?"
"No, Professor" answered Harry looking straight into her slate grey eyes.
"I didn't think so. But I'm afraid there's nothing I can do about it, well
I could try Professor Snape, but he seems determined to punish you. Well
good luck," and she swept off to complain to Neville that the hairbrush he
was supposedly trying to turn into a rabbit, still had bristles instead of
whiskers, and a handle instead of a tail.
That evening as Ron and Hermione said good-bye to Harry at the portrait
hole, Harry felt like he was going to his execution.
"Cheer up, Harry" tried Hermione, "I'm sure it won't be that bad." But she
sounded hollow, and unconvincing. Her eyes were full of concern.
Harry left the lighted warm common room, and entered the dark, damp
corridor. Draughts were blowing through, making the candles flicker. Harry
headed towards the main stairs, ignoring the Bloody Baron, who was sliding
along the floor muttering gruesomely. Harry pulled his cloak tightly round
him. On the third floor, he found the small wooden door hidden behind a
large tapestry showing a dragon being slaughtered by a knight in purple
armour. The door was already slightly open. Harry pushed it and it creaked
loudly, and immediately a wave of water descended on Harry followed by a
small bucket.
"Ouch!" Harry yelled. Peeves had carefully balanced the bucket on the top
of the door so the next person to open the door would be soaked. Peeves
cackles echoed down the corridor. Harry could hear him calling out happily
to himself,
"Potter Potter,
Now a bit wetter Ha Ha Ha"
It doesn't even rhyme thought Harry miserably as he ascended the stone
stairs, leaving a wet trail of puddles and drips behind him. Harry climbed
and climbed looking out of the small slits to see the stars shining through
purple sky. At the top of the stairs Harry hesitated before opening the
door. He couldn't hear any roar of dragons, or growl of trolls. He slowly
pushed open the door. It was very dark, only lit be a half moon, the stars
were pinpricks of light. The sky was a purple wash, but it was still light
enough to see that the tower was devoid of people. Harry suddenly felt
nervous, was the message, a hoax. Last time he had been caught up here at
night he'd lost Gryffindor 100 points, and got another detention. Was it
Malfoy on his revenge? Harry peered into the gloom. It was still
surprisingly warm. Harry could make out a large low trunk, on the far side
of the tower top. He walked slowly over to it. There was a note scrawled on
top on parchment,
Clean these
What a cheek thought Harry, Snape hadn't even bothered to come and oversee
his detention. Wondering what was in the trunk Harry carefully opened the
lid. The contents were hidden in the darkness. A low humming was coming
from it. The humming grew louder and louder, and suddenly the air was alive
with comma-shaped insects. Harry stepped back in horror. The insects were
swarming above him, their tiny eyes glowing red. Was this Snape's
punishment? All at once the insects descended, the first one hit his skin,
and stung him. Within seconds the swarm was covering Harry, stinging him.
In agony, and trying to protect his eyes, Harry stumbled towards the door.
However the insects had doubled in number, and were covering his whole
body. Harry screamed as waves of red pain enveloped his entire body. He
stumbled and fell headlong onto the floor. He didn't have the strength to
stand back up. The insects were hurting him so much, he just wanted to die.
Harry thought he saw a flash of blue-white light, and then everything went
black.
(





--------




Chapter 10 FuggioWhen Harry awoke, he couldn't see anything. It was totally dark. He knew
his eyes were open, but he couldn't make out anything at all. Just total
blackness. Harry let out a low moan. Was he blind? There was no sound.
Harry felt pain all over his skin. His body seemed to be on fire all over.
Harry called out, but no one answered him. It was too warm for him to be in
the tower, and he felt as if he was lying between soft sheets. He
remembered the insects, the flash of light, and now what? Where was he? His
skin was itching so badly, that he wanted to scratch himself raw, but he
couldn't move his arms. He couldn't move his legs either. Harry didn't know
how long he had been lying there. After what seemed like days, Harry heard
some noise, someone was moving about. Harry called out again, hoarsely, as
his throat was parched. To his immense relief he was answered. The
familiar voice of Madame Pomfrey appeared from nearby.
"Harry, can you hear me?" Harry grunted in response.
"Harry you are in the hospital wing at Hogwarts, You were brought here
yesterday night. You were attacked in the Astrology tower,"
"My eyes, I can't see," croaked Harry.
"You've been blindfolded, the toxins the insects released affect your eyes,
they will be very sensitive to light, and your skin. It will take a few
days before you recover. Now let me just put this cream on your skin."
Harry felt a cool balm being applied to his raw skin, and the itching
relented.
"Now you need to rest" Madame Pomfrey said sternly. Feeling too tired to do
anything else, Harry lay on the bed, wishing he could see what was around
him.
After a while Harry heard Ron and Hermione arguing with Madame Pomfrey. She
reluctantly let them in to see Harry.
"What happened," they said unanimously,
"Dumbledore wouldn't tell us anything" Hermione added.
Harry told them about the tower, the trunk and the insects. Hermione and
Ron listened in silence.
"Snape wouldn't do that would he?" Hermione asked, her voice shaking, when
Harry finished.
"I don't know, he thought I'd made him shrink in front of the class, he was
worse than cross with me. After you went, and he saw me with that letter, I
thought he wanted to kill me. He was absolutely furious, even crosser than
he was with the potion that made him shrink."
"But he's a teacher, it's illegal!"
" But what about Malfoy, he's still furious after that Quidditch match?"
Ron voiced. Harry wished he could see them. He'd never realised how much he
needed his sight. But before they could discuss it further, Madame Pomfrey
interrupted them, and ushered Ron and Hermione out of the room, much to
their and Harry's annoyance. Harry was left to his thoughts, and the lonely
darkness. Over the next few days, however he had no shortage of visitors:
Fred, George, Neville, Denis, Seamus and even Professor McGonagall came to
talk to him at his bedside. However they all seemed rather distant, and
none of them stayed very long. Professor McGonegall was unusually gentle
with Harry. She also filled Harry in on the rest of the story. She
explained that after seeing Professor Snape in the staff room she had
realised that Harry was in danger. She rushed up to the Astrology tower,
just in time to save Harry from the Hums. The Hums were a dangerous
invention of Dark Wizards. When a single insect was allowed to escape it
multiplies, and as a swarm it attacked the victims usually fatally. However
Professor McGonegall stoutly denied that Snape had sent the note or had
anything to do with the incident. She did have some good news however. In
light of what Harry had suffered, she had persuaded Snape to forget the
detentions Harry was owed. Apart from the visitors, the next few days were
some of the worst Harry had ever lived. His body felt like hundreds of
insects were crawling over him. His arms were kept by his sides to stop him
itching. He was very alone in dark isolation. He wanted desperately to get
back to lessons, and forget the whole episode. Even Snape's lessons were
preferable to this. However, it did give Harry plenty of time to think
about who had done this to him. Harry was convinced that Snape was at the
bottom of it. Hadn't he seen the letter with the Dark Mark? Dumbledore was
too trusting of Snape. Now Voldemort was back, what was keeping Snape from
joining him again? He was after all an ex-Death eater, and head of the
Slytherins. And where had he been at the beginning of the term? No one had
an explanation for him. By the end of the week, Harry had convinced
himself, Ron and almost Hermione, that it was Snape.
When eventually it was time to remove the blindfold Harry was even more
excited than he had been after winning the Quidditch match against the
Slytherins. When Madame Pomfrey eventually let him release the detested
blindfold, Harry's eyes were immediately dazzled by the light, despite the
room being shaded by large curtains, and filled with tears. Harry then
rubbed them, something he had been aching to do for the past few days.
Madame Pomfrey tried to get Harry to wear a pair of large dark glasses. But
he adamantly refused. Nothing would make him wear the glasses in front of
Malfoy and Snape. That would be the final insult. But before he could leave
the hospital wing, Madame Pomfrey told him that Dumbledore wanted to see
him in his office. Rolling his eyes at Ron and Hermione, who'd been looking
forward to his return almost as much as he had, Harry headed for
Dumbledore's office, for the second time that term. He walked slowly,
allowing his sore eyes to adjust to the dim hallways. The door to
Dumbledore's office was open at the bottom of the twisted stairs, which
Harry started moving as soon as Harry stood on them. He knocked at the door
at the top, and was immediately answered by a gruff come in. Harry entered,
Dumbledore was sitting at his desk. He gave Harry a small smile as he
gestured to Harry to sit on the chair opposite him. Harry sat, feeling
nervous although he wasn't sure why.
"So Harry, I hear you have been in the wars again." Harry nodded meekly.
"Before you ask, no I don't know how this happened, or who did it. I know
you will immediately suspect Professor Snape, but you must believe me,
Professor Snape is as faithful to the good side as I am and I will not hear
anything to the contrary. Professor Snape has risked his life, to help me
and you, although you may not realise this at the moment. As for the
happenings on the tower, the Hums, alas, a feared weapon of the dark lord,
and deadly. I would like you to remember that the creation of Hums is a
very difficult exercise, and could only be done by a strong wizard,
therefore it couldn't be any student from the school. They are very
dangerous. The only reason you are still with us, is thanks to Professor
McGonegall, and Peeves water bomb. I don't know if you know, but the reason
the hums didn't attack you quicker is the wetness of your clothes. They
don't like water, you were lucky.
"I have had to report this incident to the ministry, who are obviously not
happy. They agree with me, that there is a dark wizard at work here,
although I managed to convince them, that it is no one within the school.
All of the teachers have volunteered to take the test for polyjuice potion,
and I am glad to say that none of them were positive. However the ministry
as I said are not happy, they've asked for, and I'm afraid you're not going
to like this, a body guard." Harry looked at Dumbledore with a look of
shock,
"Please no, sir." But Dumbledore interrupted him.
"I'm not sure you understand the position Harry. The ministry are
insisting. My hands are tied, they already blame me for the what happened
last year. If I don't comply they will insist on my resignation. They are
looking for any excuse. If I thought it was for your best interest I
wouldn't hesitate to refuse to comply with the ministry, but this is in
your best interest. You will have to have a bodyguard with you at all
times. There is no room for any negotiation. Just to remind you of the
seriousness of the situation, the other scenario was the closing of
Hogwarts." Harry kept silent, his weak eyes were starting to water due to
the bright light in the room. He stared at his hands. Why couldn't things
just be normal and simple for once? After a long pause, Dumbledore
continued.
"I know this may seem a little harsh to you, I'm sorry, I wish things could
be easier, but given the situation..." Dumbledore paused, looked quickly at
Harry, and then looked away towards Fawkes, who was sitting on his perch.
Fawkes spread his wings, and let out one long sorrowful note, that seemed
so sad, that it made Harry want to cry. There was a long silence, and Harry
felt that he had to say something, anything. Harry said the first thing
that came into his head,
"What has Voldemort been doing apart from trying to kill me?" The change in
Dumbledore's face was dramatic, he looked grim and Harry thought even a
little fearful. His voice was sad and low. Harry thought he could detect a
slight break in it.
"Karkaroff is dead. I may not have agreed with his teaching, but he didn't
deserve this. Several of the old aurors are dead. And last week, last week
it was Moody. The real Alistor Moody. Put in his trunk and sent to the
ministry. You see now why, I and all the wizarding world are worried for
your welfare. If you die, there is no hope. "
"Now. Your protector," He got open and walked over to the door, opened it,
and in walked to Harry's immense amazement was Sirius, standing straight
and tall. He looked a lot healthier than the previous times Harry had seen
him. He was wearing smart emerald robes, and his hair was neatly combed.
"Sirius" Harry yelled in amazement. Sirius walked over to Harry and
enveloped Harry in a huge bear hug. Harry clung on to him tightly, not
wanting to let go. But by the time they eventually parted, Harry realised
that it couldn't happen,
"But you can't be seen in Hogwarts, they'll send you to the dementors. I
won't let him." Dumbledore answered him quickly,
"He will have to be in disguise of course, but you'll know it's him."
"Dumbledore wasn't going to let you know who I was in case it got out, but
I persuaded Dumbledore that you needed the support." Sirius continued. "You
can let Ron and Hermione know, you'd find it hard not to, but please don't
tell anyone else. My life depends on it." Harry felt a little better. If he
had to have a guard, then Sirius was by far the best person with him.
"How will you disguise yourself?" Harry asked.
"I'll use polyjuice potion. I'm afraid, that I'll become a goblin. One of
Dumbledore's close friends has agreed to hide in Hogwarts, in a private
chamber off Dumbledore's rooms to allow me to take some of his hair, and so
I won't be found out."
"Sirius I don't want to you to be at any risk of capture, I'd never forgive
myself, Dumbledore, are you sure that he will be safe?" Dumbledore gave
Harry a small smile.
"Harry, I wouldn't have agreed to it, if I thought there was an unnecessary
risk, but Sirius insisted, and I can't think of anyone I would trust more.
Besides there is a slight risk wherever he goes, but no one will suspect
that he is at Hogwarts. Also he is a convicted murder," At this Dumbledore
gave another small smile, while Sirius grinned, "And I am not one to argue
with him." Sirius then took a small bottle out of his pocket, and drank out
of it. Almost immediately, Sirius shrank a little, grew long ears, and took
on the twisted smile of a goblin. In a grating voice Sirius told him,
"Call me Fuggio. Shall we go to your friends. They will be worrying about
you."
Harry followed Sirius/Fuggio down the stairs, not believing his look. As he
walked along the corridors towards the common room people gave him funny
looks, wondering why there was a goblin in the school. Some of the younger
pupils looked a little scared, whereas the older ones just looked confused.
Everyone knew that goblins were only found in Gringotts. Perhaps Harry owed
them money. As Harry entered the common room he received many shocked and
angry looks. Even teachers only came into the common room on special
occasions. Having a stranger in the common room was unheard of. Harry
grinned to himself when he realised that the last stranger to enter the
common room was probably Sirius, two years ago when he was trying to kill
Ron's rat, Scabbers. Sirius walked to the middle of the room, and called
all the students to be quiet. After a few angry whispers,( who the hell
does he think he is?), Sirius began,
"As some of you may know, Harry was attacked last week, and you may also
realise that He Who Must Not Be Named is regaining his power. He has vowed
to seek vengeance on Harry, and we, that is Dumbledore believes that You
Know Who was behind last week's attack on Harry," There were a few quiet
whispers and shocked sighs from the now silent Gryffindors.
"Although it is unlikely that You Know Who will try again, Dumbledore has
asked that I stay with Harry for his protection. Please support him in this
difficult time, and if the situation changes, in any way that may put any
of you in danger we will consider drastic measures to ensure your
protection. Thank you for listening." After which, Sirius returned to
Harry's side. Nervous voices returned the common room to its usual noisy
bustle. Ron and Hermione made their way quickly over to Harry and Sirius,
Ron looking with amazement at Sirius, as if he'd never seen a goblin out of
Gringotts. Sirius tried to smile at them, but it looked more like a scowl
and Hermione took a step back.
"Follow!" whispered Sirius. They all followed him out of the common room,
and into a part of the school Harry had never been in before, which
involved pressing a statue of Sir Ruffin between the eyes, and then opening
a door that was invisible in the middle of a wall. They found themselves in
a small room in an unknown tower. Harry looked around the circular room. It
was covered in red and gold panels, and had strange circular windows. In
the middle of the room was a ornate carved table surrounded by plush red
chair. On the opposite side of the room was a large couch covered with
oriental looking rugs and cushions.
Ron and Hermione were eyeing Sirius with much suspicion. Harry grinned at
them, but they just looked puzzled. Sirius quickly examined the empty room,
and finished by closing the shutters of the circular windows. His wand lit
up, letting out a pale green light. He used it to light red and pink
candles around the room. He then turned to Harry.
"It's alright, quite safe. Dumbledore choose it for us. We will have
privacy here," Sirius said, and looking at Hermione and Ron said to Harry,
" Well, do you want to make introductions?"
"This, although it doesn't look like him, is Sirius." There was a large
pause, and then much to Hermione's and Sirius's surprise, she ran across
the room and flung her arms around him.
"Oh I've been so worried about you, is it really you?" she said, her face
buried in his chest.
"Yes, I've been alright, nobody knows where I am, or even if I'm alive,
it's Harry that you should be worried about. I don't know if Dumbledore has
made it public, but Voldemort has vowed to kill Harry, and by doing this an
age-old type of dark magic says he will then be able to defeat any wizard.
I'm here to protect him." Ron who had been quiet up to now suddenly spoke,
"How, how are they going to get to Harry, and how are you going to stop
him, he can't get into Hogwarts can he?"
"Voldemort's powers have been growing since last summer when he reemerged.
He will find a way of getting in here, however if he does, it will be using
a person, like under the impervius curse, or come himself, by using
polyjuice potion. Either way he will not be able to have the Death Eater's
with him, and it may be possible to defeat him, or at least protect Harry.
Anyway, that's enough of that. No one apart from Professor McGonegall and
Dumbledore knows who I am, and so you must call me Fuggio. Oh and Professor
Snape. He's helping me get the polyjuice potion. You can't be seen to be
too close to me either, or people may suspect something. If anything Harry
you must be seen to dislike me. That would be the natural reaction." They
left the strange room, Sirius keeping close to Harry.





--------




Chapter 11 The Snow BallOver the next few days, Harry found that he didn't need to act very hard to
be annoyed with Fuggio. He wouldn't let Harry go into the grounds even to
visit Hagrid, and was with him wherever he went. He even slept at the
bottom of Harry's bed. Luxury for me he whispered when Harry asked if this
wasn't a bit uncomfortable. Harry supposed that the end of a bed must seem
a lot better than a rocky cave, or all the other places Sirius had slept
while on the run. Lessons were both worse and better with Sirius beside
him. Malfoy didn't dare to openly taunt him, but Harry knew that Malfoy and
the Slytherins were continually laughing and making jokes about Harry and
his bodyguard. Harry didn't mind too much though, in the tower room he and
Sirius had been catching up on events that had taken place since their last
meeting. Sirius wouldn't tell Harry much about what he's been doing, but he
did give general hints that he'd been working for Dumbledore against
Voldemort. Harry told him about the letter he'd seen in Snape's office, but
surprisingly Sirius seemed unalarmed by it, and quickly changed the
subject. However Harry couldn't get the letter out of his head. The hums,
too, he was sure that Snape was behind that, if it hadn't been for
Professor McGonagall and Peeves and his water he could have died. Why
wasn't anyone that worried? Dumbledore said that it wasn't Snape, well
then, it meant that a Dark Wizard had got into the school. Perhaps Snape
had helped, perhaps that was what the letter was about. Harry couldn't stop
thinking about the Dark Mark on the parchment. The following day when
Sirius was at one of his meetings with Dumbledore, Harry got Hermione and
Ron to meet him at break in a corner of the common room.
"I'm going to break into Snape's office and read that letter," he told
them.
"You can't!" said Hermione horrified, "you could get expelled, and
Dumbledore said you weren't to go anywhere without Sirius."
"How will you get past Sirius?" Ron asked.
"It's alright, I'll pretend to go to sleep, then put the invisibility cloak
on, and then go, Sirius will never know. I have to know, if it is Snape
trying to kill me, I've got to know, he threw me to the floor when he saw
I'd seen the mark." Hermione tried again,
"Harry, Dumbledore won't let anything happen to you, Sirius is with you,
and Snape is on our side now. He saved your life remember?"
"Dumbledore let me get nearly killed by the hums, and he didn't stop
Voldemort nearly killing me, and arising last summer, and he didn't stop
Cedric being killed," said Harry almost bitterly. Hermione didn't answer,
and Harry thought about it. So many times he had nearly got killed, but
hadn't. In the first year, didn't Dumbledore find him as soon as Professor
Quirrel had finished with him, hadn't Fawkes saved him in the second year,
and Harry had survived his first proper meeting with the adult Voldemort.
Harry remembered vividly that look of strange triumph of Dumbledore's when
Harry had told him about Voldemort taking his blood. Hadn't he told the
others in the first year that Dumbledore had taught him just enough to help
him defeat Voldemort? He had the feeling that everything that had happened
had happened under Dumbledore's control. Then with a sick lurch he
remembered Cedric, no, Dumbledore wasn't all powerful, Cedric had died, and
Dumbledore had been deceived by Barty Crouch for a whole year, that surely
showed that Dumbledore was human, and that even he had made fatal errors.
If he couldn't recognise a servant of Voldemort's right under his own nose,
who said he was right about Snape?
"Harry, Harry," a voice interrupted his thoughts. His mind stopped its
wondering, and focused on Ron and Hermione who were looking at him
curiously.
"I'm going," Harry said finally. "I think it's best if I go alone, there's
no point in us all getting into trouble."
"If you are going, then I am coming with you, Hermione said adamantly. "Ron
better not go he'll be expelled for sure, and the two of you would sure to
wake Sirius. Ron stared at Hermione angrily, but didn't say anything.
"Alright then Hermione, tonight at twelve, that will give Sirius time to
get to sleep, and."
"Of course Chudley cannons will win the league," Ron said rather loudly.
Harry stared at Ron in bewilderment. Hermione caught on,
"I don't know why you two have to talk about Quidditch all the time." She
moaned, "Oh hello Fuggio," Harry turned and saw Sirius standing right
behind him, smiling broadly. Harry felt a twinge of guilt about deceiving
his godfather, but then the bell rang for the next lesson, and he quickly
gathered up his books and headed towards the greenhouses for Herbology.During the next lesson, Harry was both nervous and excited about his
nighttime expedition. He desperately wanted to find out what was in that
letter. He was thinking about it so hard, that the Scissor Tree he was
pruning took advantage of his lack of concentration and cut large chunks of
his hair off before he noticed. At lunchtime they had to go to the library
to find a hair growing charm, much to Ron and Sirius's amusement. That
night Sirius pulled out his little couch bed next to Harry, and Harry
patiently waited for him to fall asleep. However Sirius seemed to have no
intention of doing so. Harry waited and waited, and felt himself get more
and more tired.Harry suddenly awoke. He had fallen asleep, he grabbed wildly for his
glasses and watch and found that it was quarter past twelve. He should have
met Hermione fifteen minutes, ago. He glanced down at the Sirius' bed to
check that he was asleep.but he wasn't there. Some clothes had been
cleverly arranged under the blanket, so that a casual looker would think
that there was someone asleep there, but to Harry's stare it was obvious
that the bed was empty. What was Sirius doing? Harry didn't have time to
think long about it. He grabbed his jumper and the invisibility cloak, and
crept quickly down to the common room. Hermione was there looking
impatient. Harry quickly apologised and told her about the empty bed. She
was as surprised as he was, but they were both impatient to get on with the
job. Harry put the cloak around them both, and they set off out of the
portrait hole. They headed towards Snape's classroom, hoping that the
letter would be in his desk somewhere. They reached the dungeons without
difficulty. Hermione used the alohomora spell to open the heavy dungeon
door. Inside it was pitch black, and Harry lighted their wand, as they
moved towards the desk at the front of the room. He tried to ignore the
glinting jars with their preserved contents glinting in the wand light.
They were two desks away from Snape's desk when the silent dust air of the
dungeon was ripped apart by the loudest screeches Harry had ever heard.
Deafened, Harry saw the largest crow he had ever seen swooping towards him.
"Run!" he yelled. They turned and ran blindly out of the room, the crow's
cawing loud enough to wake the dead.
"Everyone will have heard that" whispered Hermione terrified. "Snape must
use the bird as some sort of burglar alarm."
"Never mind that, lets get out of here." They ran along the corridor like
some kind of mechanical toy with a part missing as they tried to move while
keeping under the invisibility cloak. As they turned a corner the almost
bumped into Snape, in long white and black pyjamas, charging along the
corridor. Hermione flung them both behind a statue, and Snape passed
without seeing them. He was followed shortly by Filch limping breathlessly.
Harry and Hermione didn't dare move for fear of being heard. They could
hear Snape banging angrily about in his classroom.
"Has anything been taken, Professor" Filch asked quietly.
"No, I don't think so, Saven frightened them off. No, the question is who
and why?" Snape replied slowly and thoughtfully. Filch then said something
inaudible. There was a pause and Harry and Hermione heard Snape venomously,
"Potter! Perhaps we have grounds for a little Versitserum." Harry felt a
cold sweat break out on his forehead, beside him, Hermione stood closer.
"Do you want me to carry out a search?" Filch asked in his oily voice.
"No you won't find him, he'll be wearing his father's cloak. He'll be long
gone by now anyway. No you get back to bed, I have some unfinished
business."
"Yes Professor."
Snape swept out of the dungeon, and up the corridor. Filch paused and
locked the door with a large silver key, before following Snape. Harry and
Hermione breathed again.
"That was too close, Harry, He knows its you." Hermione said fearfully.
Harry shook aside his sickness at Snape's words.
"Never mind about that now, what unfinished business has Snape got at this
time of night?" Harry asked intrigued. "Come on let's find out." Hermione
didn't move. "He thinks we're miles away now," Harry reassured her. They
set off after Snape. However they quite a way behind, and soon lost him as
he made several quick turns on the ground floor.
"What are we going to do now?" groaned Harry.
"Well the only place he can be heading in this direction is the entrance
hall, and the grounds," said Hermione sensibly. If he was going to the
staircase, he would have used the back ones near the entrance to the
dungeons." Harry followed Hermione to the nearest window overlooking the
grounds. There were two figures walking in the moonlight. One Harry
recognised instantly. He would know that figure anywhere, Professor Jenai.
Harry couldn't make out the other figure except that it was a man. Snape?
They had their arms around each other, and were deep in conversation. Was
Professor Jenai with Snape? Were they on the dark side together?
"There's someone coming," whispered Hermione urgently. They turned and saw
Mrs Norris' red lamp like eyes staring right at them. They could hear Filch
muttering down the corridor.
"Come on let's go," whispered Harry. They quickly and quietly returned to
the Gryffindor tower. Sirius's bed was still empty, but Harry was too tired
to ponder it further.On the last day of term Harry and Sirius spent a long cozy evening playing
wizard chess. Harry won, but he had the feeling that Sirius had meant it
that way. Hermione was going home this year, as were many of the students.
With the threat of Lord Voldemort many families wanted their children with
them. Even Ron had been asked to go home. After a lot of persuasion on
Harry's part, that he really didn't mind, and he did have Sirius to look
after him, and Sirius would keep him company, Ron eventually decided that
he would spend Christmas with his family. This was something he hadn't done
since he had begun Hogwarts.
When Harry and Sirius had finished their chess match they went down to the
common room to find it deserted. Sirius looked a little worried, but said
nothing. Harry followed him down the main stairs, and towards the Main
Hall. As he approached, Harry was surprised to hear Dumbledore's voice
booming from the slightly ajar door. Following Sirius's lead, they sneaked
in the back, and were just in time to catch Dumbledore's message,
"As you know today is the last day of term, and tomorrow many of you will
be returning to your families. However I feel that the tension from the
outside world has reached us here, and as a result I would like to announce
that tonight we will be having a joint feast and end of term Snow Ball. All
students are to wear fancy dress, and masks also if desired. The Ball will
begin at 8:00. There will be prizes for interesting costumes- go forth and
have fun"
There was absolute silence from pupils and teachers alike. No one could
ever remember anything like this happening at Hogwarts. A party, fancy
dress, tonight! Stunned whispers began to percolate through the crowd of
students, and by the time Harry had found Ron and Hermione the Hall was
alive with students discussing what they were going to wear, who they were
going to ask to dance, and what masks they were going to make.
"Wow, isn't this cool," Ron greeted Harry, as they struggled to reach each
other through the excited streams of pupils. Hermione met up with them, her
eyes excited at the challenge.
"I'm going to be Ethel the Skulder, off The New Wizards!" she said happily.
"Who on earth are they?" asked Harry.
"A famous witch band," Sirius answered for Hermione. "What are you going to
be?" he asked Ron. Ron blushed faintly, thought for a moment, and then
answered,
"How about a troll?" I could get use some of that potion from potions, and
make a mask of a face." But then his face fell. "Perhaps that's not such a
good idea." When they reached the common room it was bustling with
activity. All the students were putting a lot of effort into their
costumes. Harry and Ron still hadn't decided what to be. Everyone seemed to
be full of ideas, making very elaborate costumes and masks. Harry and Ron
sat in their dormitory trying desperately to think of something. Sirius had
gone to an urgent meeting with Professor Dumbledore after the surprise
assembly. The harder Harry tried to think what to wear, the more blank his
mind became. He couldn't think of anything to be. It didn't help not being
brought up in the wizard world. Many of the wizards and witches at Hogwarts
had heroes from wizarding books, comics and Quidditch. After sitting on
their four-poster bed for nearly half an hour, Harry was close to
desperation. He decided to go to the library in search of inspiration. Ron
followed him into the deserted silent library. They started flicking
through books for any ideas for their disguise. Ron suddenly, a large book
in his arms looked up and said,
"What about a dragon? If I got a large mask, a horntail, or something."
"It could work," Harry told him. "But what about me?" Hermione came
bursting into the library. "Look!" she panted, gesturing to a large pile of
silky and red material in her arms. "You haven't decided have you?" she
asked Harry. "I've just seen Sirius. He gave me these said they might by
useful."
Harry took them. They were made of a fine slippery silk. He held them up,
not quite sure what they were. Ron however let out a large gasp.
"Is it really? Quidditch robe from the 1879 Quidditch World Cup. The last
time England beat the world. They are worth, I don't know how much, but a
lot. They're priceless."
"Sirius said it was your Christmas present, but he thought you'd like it
more now instead. Picked it up on his travels."
"Wow" said Harry. "Thanks for this Hermione, I can't wait to say thanks to
Sirius." Then he caught sight of Ron's face. He was trying to look happy
for Harry, but Harry knew that he was feeling jealous that Harry was
getting all the attention and presents. Harry knew how he was feeling.
Fourteen years with the Dursleys had shown him what it was like to be the
underdog.
"Ron, would you like to wear them? I'll go as a Quidditch player. Chudley
Cannons. That should be easy to make."
"No don't be silly. Sirius gave it to you.how could you not want to wear
it?"
"Well to be honest I'd rather keep a low profile tonight, what with
everything that has happened. Please go, I insist," said Harry.
"Well, if you're sure."
"Yes, of course I am."
"Yesssss!!" Ron looked as pleased as punch. They made their way out of the
library, Ron almost skipping along. In the common room with the help of
Hermione, Harry made the orange tunic using a useful sewing spell Hermione
had found in a library book.
"I knew it would be useful" she told Harry. Then she went to her own
dormitory to sort out her own costume. The excitement was building
throughout the school as the hours passed. Harry spent his time doing some
holiday homework, but his mind wasn't on it. Lizzy and her friends were
talking loudly in the corner, and Ron kept interrupting him, alternately
thanking him and telling Harry to pinch him because he didn't believe it
was happening to him. Eventually Ron gave up and reread Flying with the
Cannons for the hundredth time. It was quite late when Sirius returned to
the common room. He seemed to be in a terrible mood. Every time Harry asked
him anything Sirius would snap at him and then apologize quickly. Harry
thought it must be something to do with the meeting with Dumbledore, but he
wouldn't say any more.
That evening just after dark the students got into their costumes and made
their way down to the Hall. The hall was decorated for Christmas. The huge
Christmas trees were covered with real candles and golden bubbles bounced
around. The Christmas fairies danced on the branches, their silver dresses
catching the caught the candlelight. However the students were mainly
ignoring the wonderful decorations and staring at the roof. It was snowing.
The snow fell from the enchanted ceiling and made a thick layer on the
floor. But instead of becoming slushy and melting when people stood on it,
it remained crisp and clean. Even by the huge roaring fire the snow did not
melt. At the head of hall the Wyrd Sisters were playing merrily. Harry
entered the hall self-consciously, avoiding a wild looking troll bearing an
axe, and a small girl who looked like a merperson with a green skin and a
watery dress. When Ron entered quite a few people did a double take on
seeing his costume. Several people came and asked him, if it was an
original, and told Ron what they would give to own it. Ron was looking
elated and Harry was glad that he'd let Ron wear it. Harry and Ron made
their way to the side, Sirius behind him trying to look invisible and
unthreatening, which as a goblin he had about as much chance as looking
normal as Voldemort in a nursery. Harry sat next to Ron who was looking
equally lost. They were here, but now what? Did they have to dance? Ron and
Harry sat without talking, each considering, and rejecting asking a girl to
dance with them. Hermione came to sit with them looking breathless.
"Seamus just asked me to dance," she said excitedly. She was dressed in a
surprisingly low cut indigo dress, and had a strange looking headdress,
which involved many peacock feathers. A lot of boys were looking at her
with new eyes, and before long she had been asked by a blond haired boy
from the sixth year.
"Aren't you going to ask someone to danceaHaH
?" she asked before flouncing off with the blond haired boy.
"I'm going to get some food," said Ron grumpily. He stormed off. Harry knew
better than to follow, so instead he asked Sirius again what Dumbledore had
said in his office.
"Harry if I thought it was safe to tell you I would." Sirius replied
crossly. Harry feeling rather quashed stared at the dancers twirling in the
falling snow. Parvati was dancing with Dean who was wearing his Westham
United Football strip, much to the amazement of many of the wizards. Harry
could see Dumbledore at the teachers' table looking rather like King
Neptune with a large trident, a large pearl necklace and was a rather odd
blue colour. Professor McGonagall was dressed as, well as Professor
McGonagall, and Professor Jenai was wearing an even tighter dress than
usual, and was dancing with Professor Sinistra the astronomy teacher. Snape
was nowhere to be seen. Just then Sirius leaned across,
"Look, I'm sorry about snapping at you. Something bads happened, and
there's only one-way out as far as Dumbledore and I can see, and it's not a
nice one. That's all I'm saying, so please don't ask again. Is that Ron
over there." He was dancing with Lizzy Ferkell. Her cheeks were flushed
pink, and her brown eyes wide and excited. She was talking rapidly, but Ron
seemed to be listening avidly. They seemed to be dancing a lot closer that
Harry would have thought normal. Harry felt a pang of jealously. He ignored
it and went back to studying the dancers. He was rather disconcerted to see
a few boys with messy hair and a drawn on lightning shaped scar. Sirius got
up and walked to towards the tables of food, muttering that he needed a
drink. Harry's eyes wandered around the room, admiring the huge Christmas
trees and the decorations. He realized that the fairies were humming in
time to the Wyrd Sisters. Harry looked at the huge doors leading into the
hall. A tall man had just entered the room. There were little gasp of fear
as he swept past people. He was wearing a long black cloak, with a long
mask, with a pale face, and thin lips. His eyes were glowing red. On the
back of the cloak was a skull with a snake coming out of it. It glowed
threateningly, instantly recognisable as Voldemort's Dark Mark. Whispers
echoed round the hall,
It's You Know Who
Who's come as Him?
Behind him came two heavier built wizards wearing similar costumes. They
were heading directly for Harry. The crowd drew back as they passed.
"Malfoy's come as You Know Who!" Harry whispered to himself in amazement
and feeling a little uncomfortable. The Wyrd Sisters had stopped playing,
and the dancers had paused, all eyes were watching Malfoy and Harry.
"Thought I'd show my loyalties. We all know what's going to happen to you.
It's only a matter of time," Malfoy sneered. Harry said nothing. Out of the
corner of his eye he could see Sirius making his way towards them from the
far side of the hall. Malfoy looked quickly around, enjoying the shock he'd
caused. Harry felt white with angry. Malfoy was pretending to be the wizard
that killed his parents. He reached for his wand.
"Got no-one to dance with Potter. Not surprising who'd want to dance with
you. They'd be the next target," Malfoy continued smoothly. He was about to
continue when someone stood in front of him. Cho was stood by Harry looking
furious.
"I'm dancing with Harry. Have you got a problem with that?" Harry felt he'd
died and gone to heaven. By this time Professor McGonagall had reached
them. Harry had never seen her so angry.
"How dare you enter this room dressed like that," she roared. "Get to your
common room now. Fifty points from Slytherin EACH for that inappropriate
dress. Get out of this hall now, and don't come back. You will have your
detentions next term!" There was a moment when Harry thought that Malfoy
was going to challenge Professor McGonagall, but after a short pause Malfoy
slunk from the room, and the music resumed.
"Do you want to dance now?" Cho asked softly when people had stopped
staring. "I wanted to ask you before, but I was too nervous, that you'd say
no."
"You didn't seem too nervous just now." Harry told her in amazement.
"That was nothing. I've been wanting to stand up to that idiot for ages.
Shall we dance?" Harry followed her as if in a dream. They held each other
tightly, just enjoying being together. The rest of the evening flew by.
Harry was in happy ecstasy. When Dumbledore announced the final dance,
Harry couldn't believe where the time had gone. The snow continued falling
softly around them, and crunched crisply underneath their feet as they
danced, and the gentle scent of pine needles made them feel as if they were
alone in the huge hall. As the final notes faded away, Cho leaned towards
Harry, put her arms round him, and together their lips came together, and
they kissed. The kiss lasted through Dumbledore's final speech which
neither Cho or Harry were aware of. Harry had never known anything like it.
As Dumbledore finished the snow vanished, and fireworks softly exploded
showering the students with thousands of tiny falling golden stars. They
floated down around them, landing softly in Cho's hair.
 When Harry made his way back to his bed, shivering through the cold
corridors, and through the deserted common room, he was in no doubt that it
had been the best evening of his life.





--------




Chapter 12 QuiddaxHarry woke up. He'd been having a wonderful dream that Cho had been dancing
with him at a fancy dress party. There had been snow, and oddly a lot of
golden stars. It took him several minutes to realise that it wasn't a
dream. No one was up early that morning, and there was a general feeling of
tiredness percolating the corridors of Hogwarts. When Harry, Ron and
Hermione finally got up they took a late lunch in the Hall. As Harry chewed
his kipper, he was half listening to Ron, telling him about Lizzy,
"She was at the buffet eating chocolate gateaux, she asked me about my
shirt, and then I think it was the punch, I asked her to dance, and she
said yes, and she's really nice, her favourite team is the Chudley Cannons,
we're going to see a game together sometime. She's promised to write over
Christmas." The other half of Harry was thinking about the magical kiss
with Cho. Was she just kissing him because she felt sorry for him, or did
she really like him? Hermione was rather quiet over breakfast,
unobtrusively eating her porridge. When they had eaten they returned to
their dormitories to finish packing. Harry felt a pang of sadness, feeling
rather lonely left behind in the castle, but he tried not to show it. As he
stood on the steps of Hogwarts waving sadly to them, Hermione turned and
said to him,
"You will be careful, won't you while we're away"
"Of course I will. You have a nice time. Merry Christmas."
"Merry Christmas" she replied, her eyes looking at him one last time,
before getting into the horseless carriages. When they had gone, the castle
felt very empty. There were even fewer students staying at Hogwarts that
Christmas, as many of the families wanted to be together with Voldemort
exerting his power. Sirius followed Harry back to the dormitory where he
tried to concentrate on a recent addition to the library called Quidditch:
The Greatest Games, which he'd been looking forward to reading, but somehow
he couldn't concentrate in the deserted common room. Sirius eventually
suggested a game of chess, and they went to the Turkish room where they had
a vicious game of chess. Harry's chess set were now a bit more skilled, and
together they managed to beat Sirius playing with Ron's chess set. At the
end Sirius brought out a huge bar of Honeydukes chocolate, saying that he
thought Harry needed it to cheer him up. Harry took a large piece, and felt
the familiar warmth flood through his body. Without his friends, even
Sirius wasn't able to make up for the loneliness. Still, it was the first
time that Harry and Sirius had had a chance to properly get to know each
other. With the school so empty it was possible to talk more openly, and
Harry was able to fill in Sirius on his life so far. Sirius in return was
able to give Harry a quick course in Magical Culture. Harry had learnt
about the origins of magic through his lessons with Professor Binns,
however it wasn't the same as knowing about the heroes of Quidditch
matches, the major cultural centres for wizards such as the Museum of Magic
in Frome and The National Quidditch Teams headquarters in Oxford.Christmas slowly crept up. The weather was gradually getting colder. Harry
often woke up to thick frosts, making the world outside an icy white. On
Christmas day, Harry awoke in his empty dormitory. At the end of the bed
was a small pile of presents. Dudley would have immediately thrown an
enormous tantrum if he saw it, but to Harry it was enormous. He carefully
opened the presents. Firstly was the annual Weasley jumper, this year it
had a picture of a Quidditch player on it, and was red and gold which were
the Gryffindor colours. Harry immediately put in on. The house elves hadn't
lit the fire in the dormitory, so it was very cold. Harry immediately felt
a lot warmer, and read the note that went with it.
To Harry,
This is a special jumper using a new charm. It will respond to your body
temperature, therefore will cool you in summer and warm you in winter. Also
I hope you enjoy the chocolate fudge.
Love Mrs Weasley
Harry pulled away the rest of the wrapping paper, and underneath was a huge
box of home-made chocolate fudge. He broke a large chunk off, and ate it.
He also gave a piece to Sirius who was making the most of the fact that Ron
was home by sleeping on his bed. Sirius ate it slowly. The next present was
from Hermione, he could tell it was a book from its weight and shape. Harry
slowly opened it. Inside was a brand new book, Chudley Cannons, the History
and the Legend. Harry smiled. He knew Ron would love to read it, after him
of course. The next present was a large box of assorted sweets from Ron,
and then there were three presents left. A long box, wrapped in expensive
paper was the present Harry took next. A note tied with silver string said, Dear Harry, Thought you'd like these, Love Cho xxx
Harry carefully undid the string. Inside there was a set of fine quills
that wrote in gold and silver, and another that wrote in special fonts. His
breath was taken away. They were quite exquisite and lay on a bed of cream
silk. Harry knew immediately that they were very expensive, and suddenly
felt awful that he hadn't got anything for Cho. Would she want to see him
again? Sirius seeing the look on his face said,
"It's alright, I expect she'll understand. We'll go to Hogsmeade and get
her something for when she comes back." Harry looked relieved and studied
the two presents that were left. The small grubby one he guessed was from
Hagrid. He took off the wrapping and found inside a small bag that said
wand holder. Inside was a thin belt that had a small holder on it, just the
size for a wand.
"Discreet and Useful" said the bag. Harry looked rather bemused, however
not wanting to offend Hagrid he put it round his waist. He looked down and
he couldn't see the belt or his wand, yet he could feel it. He took it out
and it became visible. When he put it back into the holder he could feel on
his hip, but not see it. Harry noticed a scruffy little note attached to
the wrapping remains,
These are all the rage in London. Thought you'd like one,
Merry Christmas from Hagrid.
Harry gave a sudden grin, and then proceeded to examine his final present.
It had no label on, and was by far the largest present of the pile. It was
about two feet high, and about three feet long. It seemed to be very
knobby. Harry hadn't a clue who it was from. Sirius, Hagrid and all his
friends had already given him his presents. He looked at Sirius
questioningly. Sirius nodded, and Harry removed the paper. Inside was a
large Quidditch pitch, complete with hoops. With it was several sets
circular metal rings about the size of a head. Harry looked at it confused.
"It's a Quidditch Simulator," Sirius told him. "In the wizarding world it's
known as a Quiddax. You put one of those rings on your head, and then you
can either watch one of 1000 famous Quidditch matches, or you can use it
for practice. So you can pretend to be any of the players, or play against
or for your fantasy team. I thought it might make up for missing the
Quidditch practices."
"You mean you gave this to me?" Harry asked in amazement. "But you already
gave me that shirt, you can't give this to me as well. It's too much"
"Well I bought it, but Dumbledore, Hagrid and even Professor McGonagall and
Dobby put some money towards it. You've got a lot of friends. I suggest you
give it to the Gryffindor Common Room. Then all the Gryffindors can play
it, and maybe have a match. Do you want to try it?"
Harry opened his mouth but nothing came out. He stood, his mouth open like
a goldfish. Sirius understood however. He took one of the golden rings, and
Harry copied him. As soon as he put on the golden ring he heard a little
squeaky voice.
"Hello Harry Potter, and welcome to the Quiddax 3000, Would you like to
play a game, or watch a game from Quidditch history, one of the thousands
available to the new owner of this highly sought after Quiddax set,
produced exclusively from only the finest materials, and using only the
latest wizarding inventions."
Harry heard Sirius telling him to ignore the sales talk, and say what he'd
like to do. Harry, feeling rather foolish said,
"Play a game," immediately he was answered,
"Which position and which team would you like to play for?"
"Seeker and English world cup team"
"Which year?" Harry remembering his famous Quidditch robes given to him
said
"1879"
"Training, match or final?"
"Final"
"Player 2?" Sirius answered
"Keeper."
Harry suddenly felt the warm humid air around him. He was in the changing
room of a huge stand, around him were standing men and women looking
nervous, but very strong and athletic. They were wearing red, blue and
silver robes. Harry was wearing the same. On the other side of the room was
Sirius with the same colours. He gave Harry an encouraging smile. Harry
smiled back weakly. Outside he could hear the muffled cheers of thousands
of people. I am not going to let my country down, thought Harry. We are
going to win. We've been practicing for months. This is it. We are going to
win. Spain don't have a chance. The players were making their way out of
the door into a room full of coffin sized boxes. Harry instinctively went
to his box and took out a Ravensbeak 250. The best model on the market.
Around him the players were mounting their brooms. Harry followed, and
before he knew it was following the men out onto the Quidditch pitch. The
stand was huge. The sky incredibly clear, and the sun was beating down
without mercy. The heat and the humidity hit Harry like a wall after being
in the cool changing rooms. He could vaguely hear the announcer
"Here come the English team, Captain and Beater Doyle... Beater Forrest
..chasers, Douglas .. Rhead . Packer. Keeper Black and the world famous
seeker, Mr Harry Potter. Harry circled the huge stadium, waving as the
crowds roared. Within minutes the game had started. Harry delighted the
crowds by showing off many moves such as the Alexander Drop and the
Fenchurch marking.
The game was hard fought. Sirius had to be constantly vigilant, as the
Spanish players were good, hitting the bludgers towards him without pity.
Harry was watching the sky closely for any sign of the snitch. His advisers
had been right. The snitch would be hard to see with the shimmering heat
and the sand coloured pitch. The game was getting rougher. The Israeli
Referee awarded a penalty to England because the Spanish beater had flown
deliberately into Sirius, knocking him off his broom. Harry circled a
little lower than would normally. There was no point in straining his eyes
too much. The match had been going for over an hour when Harry first
spotted the snitch. He raced towards it, and was miles in front of the
Spanish seeker, however the snitch disappeared just as his fingers touched
it. Cursing his luck Harry returned to the sky. England were wining three
hundred to one hundred and eighty when the snitch was spotted for the
second time. It was very close to the Spanish seeker, who hadn't seen it.
If Harry made any move towards it, he knew the Spanish seeker would see it
and grab it. Instead Harry plummeted towards the ground pretending he'd
seen it. The Spanish seeker followed. By the time Harry had pulled out of
the dive the snitch had gone. After another half an hour a break was called
to allow everyone to take a drink. Harry had never needed a drink so much.
The cool Herb fizz was soothing to his parched throat. Before he knew it
however, he was back in the air, the winking binoculars pointed at him were
distracting him, but he ignored them. It wasn't long before he spotted the
snitch a third time. He dived one last time, this time successfully, the
snitch struggling uselessly between his triumphant fingers. He soared round
the pitch in a state of ecstasy. The rest of the team swooped towards him
cheering and screaming, but were drowned out by the thunderous roar of the
crowds in the stands. England had won by five hundred points. A massive
victory! Harry went to the platform, and hand in hand with the captain took
the enormous cup. What a win! The crowds would not stop cheering. English
flags and England rules signs were flashing madly in the stands. The
English mascots, which were fairies riding little sledges pulled by flying
bulldogs, were leaping off their benches and flying round like little balls
of light. The keeper stepped towards him, Harry ignored him, savoring the
atmosphere, this is what all the weeks of training had been for he thought
ecstatically. It had been worth every minute.
"I think we'd better be going to dinner," said the keeper. What? thought
Harry. We've just won the Quidditch World Cup. What's he going on about
dinner? We're having a special feast courtesy of the Spanish Quidditch
Association anyway.
"Come on Harry. It's time to go," said Sirius again. He disappeared from
Harry's side on the platform. Harry was just looking at the smiling face of
Doyle, when suddenly everything went dark. Harry blinked, he was standing
in his dormitory. Sirius was standing next to him in his usual black robes."Well, what did you think of your present then?" Sirius asked with a grin.
"You certainly got a bit carried away."
"Was that, the game, was that all in my head, you mean it wasn't real"
Harry stuttered.
"Pretty good aren't they? Very realistic. Now we'd better get down to
Christmas dinner before Dumbledore thinks you've been kidnapped." Harry was
still feeling a bit disorientated. He was sure he'd just been in Spain,
playing the home country, and they'd won. Now he was back at Hogwarts. The
confusion, however soon wore off, and Harry couldn't wait to try the
Quiddax again.
In the Hall, the usual long tables were gone, and instead a large circular
table replaced it. However although it seated twenty people it was dwarfed
by the large hall. Apart from Harry there were two Hufflepuffs and a
Ravenclaw staying. Harry didn't know any of them as they were all younger
than him. They seemed averted their eyes if Harry looked at them, which
Harry found disconcerting, but ignored it. The teachers and the three other
students were already sitting at the empty table. Sirius apologized for
their lateness, which Dumbledore accepted graciously, Snape looked at them
both with pure loathing.
"Did you like your presents then Harry?" asked Dumbledore. Harry knew he
was referring specifically to the Quiddax.
"It's great sir," grinned Harry.
"Good, good, Now let's begin." The goblets filled with steaming punch, and
the golden plates were full of Christmas Fayre. Hot sprouts, tender turkey,
steaming gravy, glistening chipolatas, golden roast potatoes and crackling
bacon. Flaming Christmas puddings followed with huge jugs of thick cream.
After the meal Harry was feeling incredibly full, and was quite happy to
spend the rest of the day lounging in the warm common room playing wizard
snap and chess, but only half-heartedly. The following days went very
quickly with Quiddax to play, and Sirius to talk to. Before he knew it, it
was the day that everyone came back. Hermione and Ron came rushing into the
common room, and for the next half an hour everyone was speaking at once
telling him about their Christmas presents, what Fred and George had done
to the Christmas Pudding, and where they had gone on Boxing Day. It was
sometime before Harry could tell them about the Quiddax set. Ron and
Hermione couldn't believe Harry's luck,
"A real Quiddax set"
"You are so lucky"
"Wish I had one!"
"Can we play on it?" However before Harry could get it from his room, there
came a strange sound from the ceiling. It was a sort of splashing and
roaring sound. This was followed by a dripping through the roof, which soon
became great streams of water through the common room roof.
"What is that?" Ron asked. Water was pouring from at least ten places in
the ceiling, and had already made large puddles on the floor. Everyone was
soon soaked, and people started frantically clambering out of the portrait
hole. Water had reached ankle height when Ron, Harry, Sirius and Hermione
were able to get to the portrait hole. They scrambled out only to find that
the corridors were flooded also. Professor McGonagall slipped towards them,"Peeves has upset the water pipes. You'll all have to get out while we sort
it out. Third years and above can go to Hogsmeade, the rest of you, you'll
have to wait outside on the Quidditch pitch, just keep away from the
castle." Harry delighted at the prospect of visiting Hogsmeade despite his
ban, waded down the corridors. As they reached the ground floor the water
reached nearly waist height and Ron tried swimming. At last they managed to
get to the main entrance, but as the steps had turned into a roaring
waterfall, they climbed out of a nearby window. They paused to wring out
their sodden cloaks, and tip the water out of their boots. Hermione and
Harry conjured up a fire to dry themselves out. Looking back they could see
Peeves floating in a yellow duck rubber ring in the lake that had formed on
the front lawn. He was cackling loudly.
"I'm glad we can go out to Hogsmeade, it's freezing, I don't fancy waiting
about on the Quidditch pitch," Harry told them. Luckily Ron and Hermione
were still wearing their outdoor clothes and Harry was wearing Mrs
Weasley's magically warm jumper. Then they headed down the country road to
Hogsmeade. As Ron was talking to Sirius about Quidditch, Harry slipped back
to tell Hermione about Cho's present,
"So I don't know what to get her?" he concluded. Hermione smiled.
"I know just the place. I saw it advertised in The Daily Prophet. It's a
new shop- it's called The Witches Cauldron, You'll be able to find
something there."
They soon arrived at the twisting main street of Hogsmeade. There were
already clusters of students, still looking slightly damp wandering up and
down the street. Hermione made an excuse to visit The Witches Cauldron, and
Harry followed her. Inside the brightly-lit shop were shelves and shelves
of ornaments, wizarding gadgets and a few odd looking garments. Hermione
studied the shelves intently before picking a small twisted silver ring. It
was covered with intricate patterns and in the middle was a glowing milky
pink stone, that was swirling. Hermione considered it, and then told Harry,
"It's a bit forward isn't it, you've only kissed once," Harry blushed, but
Hermione had already moved to the next shelf. She was now considering an
ornate goblet. Harry began looking round the shop. There were some other
students from the school, all girls however. Sirius was waiting outside.
Some of them were looking at Harry oddly. Harry blushed again, and then
pulled on Hermione's arm,
"Why don't I get her a box of chocolates?"
"Then what did you ask me for?" said Hermione huffily, and marched out of
the shop. Harry looked at the ring one last time, and then scooped it up
and took it to the friendly witch at the counter who smiled at him
toothily.
"Do you want it wrapped dear?"
"Yes, please" Harry mumbled. It was a great relief when he was out of the
shop. He joined Ron in the sweet shop. Ron was looking with interest at the
small neatly wrapped parcel Harry was holding, but Harry ignored him.
Instead he looked at the shelves of boxed chocolates, choosing a neatly
wrapped box in the shape of a dragon. He paid for it along with a few of
the latest creations. They then visited the pub where Sirius got them a
small back room where they could talk freely, and then paid for them all to
have large goblets of butter beer and large wizard cream cakes that grew
back every time you took a bite, so there was always some left on your
plate.
"I've waited many years to do this," Sirius told them when they protested
that this was too much. Sirius was a great entertainer, and amused them for
hours with accounts from his youth, and stories from his travels. Harry was
a little skeptical about the truth content of some of them, but they had
him and the others rolling about splitting their sides with laughing.
 It was already starting to get dark, and the sky was thick with rain, when
eventually Harry and his friends left Hogsmeade. The bright lights of
Hogsmeade were twinkling merrily behind them, making the road in front of
them seem darker and more threatening. The clouds were very low, and within
minutes it was raining. Harry was convinced there were people behind every
bend, and he strained his eyes in the rapidly thickening gloom to peer at
the high hedges. Sirius was cursing himself for letting them leave so late.
They were a little over five minutes walk from the gates of Hogwarts when a
loud cry was heard not far away. The small party stopped dead. The sound
came again. It was not a pleasant sound. A scream, a screech, the sound of
a terrible beast. The terrible cry came again, and then Ron shouted,
"Look over there!" A winged creature was silhouetted against the sky. It
had huge talons stretched out in front of it. It swooped low over the group
it's claw just scraping Ron's back.
"Run!" yelled Sirius. "Get to the school." His wand was drawn. Harry and
the rest of them ran as fast as they could along the road. Harry turned
back to see Sirius, his wand in the air, blue white sparks bursting out
from it. The appalling brute was circling again it's claws reaching towards
Sirius. The sound of its raw screeches filled the air. Ron grabbed Harry's
arm saying,
"Come on. He told us to go." Harry followed him panting heavily and
thinking about Sirius. It was a relief when they passed the high pillars at
the entrance to Hogwarts, and could see the lights from the many windows
spilling out onto the dark lawns.
"Come on!" Harry yelled. "Let's get some help." He ran towards the steps
leading up to Hogwarts. To his relief Professor Jenai was walking down the
steps. She stopped and looked at their pale scared faces.
"Where's Sirius?" asked she quickly.
"We were attacked, just down the road, a winged." Harry stopped, Professor
Jenai was shrinking and turning a golden yellow. A tail appeared, and her
clothes melted away. A huge tiger leapt down the steps and tore across the
lawn and out of the gates.
"She's an amigus too" Harry breathed. They stood and looked out of the
gates. A few minutes later Sirius rounded the corner, panting and holding
his arm, Professor Jenai was supporting him. Blood was leaking under his
fingers from a nasty wound.
"It's gone. Come on let's get inside." Professor Jenai and Sirius strode
off leaving the others desperately wanting to ask the same question, what
was that?
 Back inside the school, things were nearly back to normal. Sirius left
them saying he was just going to see Madame Hooch. The teachers had been
very busy using their drying charms on all the furniture, floors, and
personal possessions. The Fat Lady was still swimming in her frame however,
wearing a ridiculous bathing costume with large red stars covering the huge
expanse of flesh. She showed off doing a handstand underwater as Hermione
told her the password, Angelus.
Inside Harry was please to see a roaring fire on the grate. As they had
missed tea there was a large table full of sandwiches, crisps and raspberry
cheesecake. Telling the others to wait in the common room he dashed
upstairs, and returned struggling to carry the Quiddax set. Hermione's eyes
lit up and Ron's mouth fell open in admiration. Several of the Gryffindors
were watching Harry, pleading at him with their eyes. Harry asked Neville,
and was in the process of asking Dean and Seamus if they wanted to play
when Lizzy bounded up.
"Can I play?" she asked with a big rosy grin. Harry didn't have a chance to
say anything before Ron had grabbed one of the gold rings and placed it
over her thick brown hair. Hermione looked at her with loathing, while Ron
sat next to her on the couch placing a ring on his head. Neville, Seamus,
Dean and Harry all put on a ring, which made a Quidditch team. They each
choose their positions, and decided to play against the Chudley Cannons,
which was Ron's idea. They were spectacularly beaten because although Harry
caught the snitch, Hermione was no good as a beater, and Neville was ten
times worse. However they all enjoyed it immensely, especially as they were
playing in an African Jungle on a lovely sunny day. At the end Harry
quickly wrote a little note to the Gryffindors saying they were welcome to
use it anytime. He then used a sticking charm to attach it to the wall.
Sirius had appeared with a bandaged arm sometime while they were playing
Quiddax and was already asleep in the dormitory. Harry reread his Christmas
present; Chudley Cannons The History and Legend. He called Ron to read him
the bit where the Chudley Cannon seeker swallowed the snitch in the 1286
National Cup, when he realised Ron wasn't there. He put on his night gown,
and crept down the stairs into the darkened common room. The candles were
all out, and the only light was from the glowing embers of the fire. Harry
strained round and was just able to see Ron and what looked like Lizzy
Ferkell talking passionately on the couch. Harry quietly returned to his
bed.
(





--------




Chapter 13 The Silver Goblet
After the excitements of Christmas lessons seemed remarkably quiet. The
teachers seemed to all have the same idea, to give them as much homework as
possible. There was so much work, that Harry didn't get many chances to
play on the Quiddax. It was very popular with the other Gryffindors, who
considered Harry their hero for letting them use it. Malfoy was quietly
fuming, but outwardly saying that Quiddax was out of date, and even that he
had one at home, but nobody believed him. It was useful for practices, and
Harry tried to get at least a couple of hours on it, because although it
wasn't the same as actually being on his Firebolt, it was very close, and
stopped him getting rusty. Much time was spent in the gloomy library
studying hard. It was a relief when the second Quidditch Match arrived to
take Harry's mind off the forthcoming exams. The game was against
Hufflepuff, and after the victory over Slytherin, Gryffindor hopes were
high. The morning of the match was very frosty, and for once Harry didn't
have the familiar sick feeling in his stomach. For once he was feeling
almost confident. They'd beaten Hufflepuff before, and they were going to
do it again. All along the tables Gryffindors were eating merrily. Even
Harry managed a smile. They were soon in their Quidditch robes and in the
air. Harry immediately became calm and focused, searching the clear cold
air for the snitch. Down below him the players were whizzing about, every
so often rubbing their red hands. Harry didn't feel cold because of the
magical jumper, but his hands and nose were a shade of deep purple. The
other seeker was looking extremely cold, and was also looking rather
miserable. Her name was Gimeini Kirsch, and was very thin with a mean
looking face. Harry didn't like her much, she was always spreading rumours
about others. She glared at him, but Harry sped round the pitch a few
times, and then avoiding a few bludgers he watched from a lower down
position than usual. The sun was struggling feebly against the icy air.
Lizzy below him was working hard in goal. Gryffindor was definitely the
better team. Hufflepuff had to work hard to keep up with the speeding
Gryffindors. The score was already in the hundreds. Alicia had just scored
another goal. The snitch suddenly fluttered just above the frozen ground.
The Hufflepuff seeker was a lot closer and was already racing towards it.
Without thinking Harry bent low over his Firebolt and sped towards the
snitch. His whole body was focused on the snitch. The tiny golden ball was
fluttering nonchalantly a few feet above the ground. It was dangerous to go
so close to the ground, Harry could see out of the corner of his eye
Gimeini level with him. Harry bent even lower, and tried to give the
Firebolt an extra ounce of speed. His hand stretched out and closed around
the snitch, but a second later the Gimeini's long fingers closed round the
snitch and Harry's hand. The ball was yanked form Harry's fingers making
Harry loose his balance and fall sprawling onto the frosty grass. The
Gryffindor's in the stand were howling with rage. Madame Hooch swooped
over.
"Stop!" she roared to the Gimeini Kirsch who was doing a victory lap around
the pitch to the fury of the majority of the spectators. "Gryffindor had
that snitch. Gryffindor wins." She then bent over Harry who had fallen
awkwardly on his wrist and was now holding it tightly to his chest. Pain
was shooting through it. Around him the Gryffindors were cheering with
venom. The disgraced seeker had crept off to a series of boos and hisses.
Numbly Harry made his way to the hospital wing. Madame Pomfrey looked at
his wrist carefully. She went to the large carved cupboard where the
medicines and potions were kept, tutting about the dangers of Quidditch.
She came back with a large ceramic bowl with an odd looking green cream
that smelled vaguely of peppermint. She rubbed some onto Harry's wrist. She
said lightly
"This will stop it swelling, you've only sprained it, but take it easy for
the next few days. Come back if it continues hurting."
Harry entered the common room to scenes of elation. They had won the
Quidditch Cup unless Ravenclaw beat Slytherin with at least a two hundred
and thirty point margin, and they lost the next match against Ravenclaw. As
this was almost impossible, Gryffindors were assured of a victory. Harry
was treated as a hero. The Weasley's had raided the kitchen and returned
laden with plates of cream cakes, iced buns and pumpkin pasties. Someone
had brought a music stone, which was similar to muggle cassette players. It
was broadcasting loud tinkling music. Everyone seemed to be in a top mood.
Harry was swamped by Gryffindors coming to congratulate them. The feast was
at it's height when four large tawny owls swooped in bearing a large
barrel. A label was tied to its neck.
To Harry and the Gryffindors,
Congratulations on your victory. With compliments
Professor McGonegall
Harry grinned widely and held the flask of butterbeer high as he read the
message. The Gryffindors cheered. Before they could finish, another owl
swooped in the window. In its talons there was a large silver goblet. Four
gold bats encircled the rim, while two owls, their wings outstretched were
engraved on the base. Its label said simply
To Harry.
 Some cups were brought, and Harry poured a small amount for the other
Gryffindors. He poured a portion for himself in the new cup. Just then
Neville came in with a large cut over his eye. The Gryffindors crowded
round him. He was trembling violently.
"Malfoy, was cross, he b.b.bewitched a knife" he stuttered. The Gryffindors
looked mutinous.
"Go and tell Professor McGonagall" Ron told him furiously.
"I don't want to make things any worse," Neville told him miserably.
"Well, have some butterbeer that McGonagall sent us," said Lizzy kindly.
Neville nodded. And went over to the bench.
"We're going to have to get out own back" raged Ron. "It's gone far enough,
we'll."But what Ron was going to do, they didn't find out. Neville had
collapsed on the floor and was a dreadful green colour. He was retching
violently. Harry's silver goblet was in his hand. Harry had just time to
see Sirius's face as he rushed past him. Harry had never seen him look so
terrified. Sirius virtually threw Gryffindors out of the way in his attempt
to reach Neville. He grabbed the now limp Neville in his arms and hurried
out of the room. The Gryffindors stared silently at the closing portrait
hole, their drinks and food forgotten.
No-one felt like continuing the party, and quietly in small groups, they
left the silent common room. Harry was sat on a large red stuffed chair
looking blankly at the cup still lying on the floor, the golden butterbeer
soaked into the rich red carpet. Hermione and Ron were looking equally
shocked. Eventually Hermione broke the silence,
"That cup was meant for you. Everyone else drank the butterbeer and they
were alright. The cup must have been poisoned." Harry was still staring
miserably at the floor. He then turned and looked into Hermione's eyes,
looking scared,
"It's my fault. I should have drunk from it. And now Neville is d." He
stopped unable to continue. He felt tears pricking at his eyes. He forced
them back, but he couldn't ignore the big lump in his throat, or the ache
in his heart.
"I have been so selfish. I should have gone like Dumbledore told me to. I
will never forgive myself he if ." he broke off again, and looked back at
Hermione and Ron.
"It's not your fault," Hermione told him. "You've nothing to do with it."
Hermione's reassurances didn't make Harry feel any better. He stood up and
left the common room. He got ready for bed, even though he knew he wouldn't
sleep. His thoughts ran round his head never stopping for breath. It was
his fault. He'd put his friends in danger. He should have left, especially
after the Hums. Neville could be dead, and it was because of him. Why
couldn't he be left alone and have a normal life? Guilt racked his whole
body. Seamus and Dean came up to bed, shortly followed by Ron, but Harry
ignored them and pretended he was asleep. Neville's empty bed stuck out
like a sore thumb. Sirius's bed was also empty. Harry didn't think he'd
slept at all, but he must have done because he woke up to see weak sunlight
streaming through the windows. Sirius and Neville's beds were still
deserted. He quickly slipped on his clothes without waking any of the
others, climbed down the steps, went through the common room. Nobody had
cleared up, and half-eaten cream cakes lay on tables and the spilled
butterbeer was now a sticky mess on the carpet. The silver goblet had gone.
Harry left the common room. He strode along the empty corridors and made
his way towards Dumbledore's office. He knocked on the door, but there was
no answer. He knocked again, but he was answered with silence. Harry then
walked to the hospital wing. As he walked along the corridor Nearly
Headless Nick swept past him. Nick stopped and hovered in front of him,
"You should not be wandering about the corridors young Harry. I'm very
sorry about your friend." He looked like he was about to go on, but then he
shimmered a little and floated off. Harry reached the hospital door and
knocked quietly. The door opened and Professor Dumbledore appeared at it
looking grim.
"Ah Harry, I wondered if we would be seeing you." Harry looked at the
floor. " I think it would be best if you waited in my office. The password
is Spicy Toads. I will try not to be too long"
"Sir. How's Neville. Is he, is he dead?"
"No, Harry he's not dead, but he is gravely ill. Now I ask you to leave us.
I will try to be with you shortly" And with that the wooden door closed
leaving Harry feeling very alone and the tears pricking his eyes again. He
slowly made his way back to Professor Dumbledore's office. He said the
password and climbed the stairs. He flopped miserably down on the nearest
chair. Fawkes flew softly over and landed carefully on his knee. His
warmness was comforting and Harry let his mind clear and stared out of the
window, watching the clouds scurrying across the sky.
Harry had almost fallen asleep when Dumbledore finally arrived back in his
office.
"I've just had to tell your friends that you're still alive. You caused
quite some fuss by disappearing off like that. Anyway Neville," any
joviality in his voice, any twinkling of his eyes had left him with those
last two words. "Neville is in a serious way. The cup as you probably
gathered was poisoned. Luckily Sirius was able to treat him straight away
or he would be dead, but I think that he will live. It may take many weeks
for him to recover. And you Harry, how are you?"
"I think I'd better leave," said Harry wretchedly. "I've selfishly put
others in danger by staying here" Dumbledore was looking at him sadly but
grimly,
"Harry this is not your fault. If it is anyone's mistake it's mine. I have
made a tragic error. Harry please believe me when I say that this didn't
happen because of you." Dumbledore said this with such vehemence that Harry
was quite shocked. How had Dumbledore been to blame? Was he just saying
that to make Harry feel better?
"Harry we can protect you here better than anywhere" Dumbledore said before
Harry had a chance to think about it anymore.
"I can't stay here," Harry said stoutly. "If I wasn't here Neville wouldn't
have been attacked, and we wouldn't have been attacked by that thing on the
way back from Hogsmeade. I must go." The look that Dumbledore now gave
Harry was so filled with sadness, that Harry was quite startled.
"I can see there will be no dissuading you. Very well. I will have to talk
to the ministry and to Sirius. In the mean time you had better wait in the
common room. We will get you when we are ready."
Harry left the office, letting Fawkes fly effortlessly back to his perch
and returned to the common room. It was empty. Everyone else was in
lessons. Harry looked round sadly. He would be leaving all this. Leaving
Hermione, Ron and Cho. Perhaps leaving for good. Harry went up to the
dormitory and put his belongings in the trunk just in case they were
needed. As he put his books in the trunk he found a small parcel. It took
him a moment to remember what it was. Then he realised. It was for Cho.
Finding his best quill that wrote in silver he wrote a little message.
When you find this I will be gone. I hope you like it, and I love you
Love Harry.
It didn't sound quite right, but that was the best he could do. He tied on
the label and he gave it to Hedwig to take to Cho's bedroom. Then finding
he couldn't settle he returned to the common room and started a new book he
had got from the library called Changing Faces. The story of the first
Animagi and the importance of their discovery. It helped take his mind off
his future. He suddenly felt strangely detached. He wasn't waiting to be
sent away from the people he loved, and the only place that had ever felt
like home. It didn't seem real anymore. He put his book down and wandered
absently to the large window at the side of the common room. Below him on
the Quidditch pitch a group of first years were learning Quidditch. Harry
stared at them longingly. He didn't know when he'd be playing Quidditch
again, he wondered if Gryffindor would still win the house cup without him.
Who would replace him as seeker? His thoughts were rudely interrupted by an
owl flying in a nearby window. It landed on the back of an armchair. It was
a large owl, completely black with piercing orange eyes. It held Harry in
its gaze for a full minute while Harry stared back suspiciously. It wasn't
that unusual for owls to deliver messages to the common room, but this one
did not appear to have a letter, nor was it usual for owls to sit staring
at a human. Harry had never seen a completely black owl before. Suddenly
the owl leapt off the chair back it was sitting on and flapped towards the
fire. It stood before the glowing embers before flying out of the room
letting out a tremendous screech as it did so. There is something wrong
about this, thought Harry. Where was Sirius? He would have known what to
do. Should he go and find him? Dumbledore had said to stay in the common
room, and besides the owl hadn't seemed to do anything. Perhaps it had just
been hungry, or tired from a long journey. Harry returned to his chair
still puzzled at the strange behaviour. He didn't notice the green smoke
that had begun curling and twisting from the fire. Harry started to read
his book again. The first sign that anything was wrong came as he was
reading about Switz, the famous Hanoverian Amigus of the fifteenth century.
A strange smell, a cross between peppermint and bitter lemon wafted under
his nose. Harry looked up and noticed the room was filled with a pale green
smoke. The smoke bit at his eyes making tears run from them. The smoke was
getting thicker and thicker choking Harry. He couldn't breathe. He made his
way stumbling towards the portrait hole, his eyes screaming in pain. The
green smoke curled round him smothering and choking him. He could hardly
see the hole as he climbed into it. The Fat Lady's Portrait swung open and
Harry collapsed outside, panting and his eyes streaming. A figure in a
black robe was standing there. Harry had just time to see the white twisted
face before the man pointed his wand at him and a powerful curse. Harry
collapsed lifeless on the stone floor, while Snape returned his wand within
the folds of his cloak. (





--------




Chapter 14 A surprise assemblyThe first sign that something was wrong came as Hermione and Ron were
walking from History of Magic to Transfiguration. Three elderly wizards
hurried past them talking in low hushed whispers. They managed to catch a
snippet of the conversation,
"So it's finally happened."
"Yes, it's a sad day, what are we going to do now?"
"There's no hope now."
Hermione looked at Ron who shrugged, but they thought no more about it. The
next odd thing was the fact that Professor McGonagall's room was empty.
This was very unusual, she was never late for a lesson, and she'd also had
a second year class before in the same classroom. The Gryffindors sat at
their desks and waited. Ten minutes passed and Professor McGonegall had
still not arrived. This had never happened before, and the class were
chatting quite loudly when the door was pushed sharply open and Professor
Sprout burst in. Her face was flushed with exertion, and she looked oddly
close to tears.
"There's an assembly in the hall now. Walk down in silence." The
Gryffindors stared at her in amazement, but meekly complied. As they walked
down the steps they saw other lines of students all heading to the hall in
silence. Inside the hall they sat down, there wasn't so much as a whisper.
Behind them as the last students entered, the thick wooden doors closed
with a dull thud. On the platform the teachers were sitting, some looked
like they were crying. Hagrid was sitting on the floor, filling a large
corner. Large tears were leaking from his eyes. Every few minutes he would
wipe his eyes with a large red and white spotted handkerchief. The
handkerchief was very wet. Many of the students were staring in
fascination. There were also strangers on the stage. The trio of wizards
Hermione and Ron had seen before were gathered there, as were other wizards
that were unfamiliar, although Hermione thought that one of them at the
back was Cornelius Fudge. Dumbledore stood up from his usual chair and
walked slowly to the front of the stage. He slowly surveyed the gathered
students before beginning,
"It is my regretful duty to call you altogether this morning. There has
been a tragedy and it falls upon me to inform you. Earlier today a Hogwarts
pupil was murdered." A solemn hush swept round the hall. Every pair of eyes
were staring hard at Dumbledore.
"Harry Potter is dead." The tomb-like silence was broken by Hermione
letting out an involuntary sob. She flung her arms round Ron who was
closest to her. She held onto him tightly, desperately. Ron stared ahead
blankly unaware of Hermione's distraught sobs. Harry wasn't dead. They
couldn't kill Harry; he'd seen him last night. They'd talked. He was only a
boy. Harry wasn't dead. Around Hermione and Ron there were shocked and
unbelieving whispers,
"Harry Potter can't be dead. I saw him yesterday."
"It can't be true."
 Dumbledore waited for a few moments before sadly continuing,
"He was lured out of the common room, and was killed by a dark wizard, who
then escaped without capture. Harry Potter through his short life has shown
outstanding courage beyond his years. Alas his foe was too powerful.
Hogwarts failed to protect him and for that I take responsibility. You
however, are still my responsibility and your safety is paramount. For this
reason I am closing Hogwarts until further notice. The Hogwarts Express
will be leaving at 2:00. This gives you time to collect your belongings and
make your goodbyes. Remember Harry Potter; he was a credit to this school,
and the wizarding world. That will be all." Dumbledore turned his back on
the students and left the platform.
Ron was still unaware of what Dumbledore had just said. Beside him,
Hermione was shaking. She couldn't stop, and tears were running down her
face. She let go of Ron and buried her face in her hands. Ron looked at her
curiously. Why was she crying? Harry wasn't dead. Harry would be waiting
for them in the common room. It was several minutes before anyone stirred
from their seats. However students did start to leave the hall, some were
crying, others were walking in silence. Even Malfoy didn't have his usual
sly grin. He looked shocked and was whiter that usual. Ron and Hermione
were left alone in the large hall. Ron was still in shock; nothing seemed
to make sense. Hermione was sobbing inconsolably. Professor McGonegall
walked over to them, her shoes echoing hollowly in the deserted hall.
"Come on Ron, Hermione. Do you want to come up to Dumbledore's office?"
Hermione looked up into McGonagall's slate grey eyes, her face tear
stained. She nodded miserably, Ron was still staring out into space.
Hermione pulled lightly on his arm. He slowly got to his feet and they both
followed Professor McGonegall out of the hall, along the corridors and up
the stairs into Dumbledore's office. Dumbledore was sitting at his large
desk, Fawkes perched next to him. Ron stared round him in awe. He had never
been in Dumbledore's office before. Dumbledore looked at them both with
sadness and concern.
"I just wanted to tell you both how sorry I am. Harry's death is a complete
tragedy; it is the worst possible thing that could have happened. I just
wanted to tell you personally how sad I am. I'm so sorry we weren't able to
protect him. I don't know if you knew, but he was going to leave this
morning anyway. After Neville drank from of his cup, he felt responsible
and asked me if he could leave, so you wouldn't be in any danger. He was so
brave." Dumbledore sighed. "I'm sorry I couldn't protect him" Hermione
stared at him her eyes still bright with tears,
"Of course we don't blame you. It's His fault. Harry didn't stand a chance
against Him." She said bitterly, and then broke off. There was a large
pause. Ron broke the silence,
"He's not dead. I spoke to him last night."
Dumbledore shuddered slightly,
"He is dead. I saw his body. Perhaps you better go and pack now." He got up
and started to sort out some papers in one of his cupboards. Hermione got
up and together with Ron, she smiled weakly at Professor McGonegall and
went down the tower and headed towards the Gryffindor common room. Behind
them Professor McGonegall shut the door rather too loudly.
"It's not fair," she said angrily to Dumbledore. "It's unfair to make them
go through this. They're only children. It's cruel."
"Minerva. I didn't enjoy it. But what's at stake. We can't risk it. It's
breaking my heart, but what's the other options?" He looked straight into
her eyes. "We need to know where we stand first."Back in the common room the atmosphere was very sombre. Several Gryffindors
came up to Hermione and Ron and said how sorry they were. Several of the
girls were crying. Lavendar and Parvati were holding each other and sobbing
loudly. Hermione ignored them. Ron didn't see them. They found a corner
away from most of the Gryffindors. Hermione tried to talk to Ron. He still
didn't seem to have understood what happened. Eventually he looked into her
eyes and said,
"He's dead isn't he. He's really dead." Hermione nodded the tears returning
to his eyes. Ron found himself wanting to cry, but he couldn't. Ron looked
blankly across the common room, Dennis and Colin Creevy were wiping their
eyes with handkerchiefs. Sadness filled Ron, he looked away, leaned over
and hugged Hermione tightly.
In the Ravenclaw common room, Cho sat alone in a corner turning a silver
ring in her hands.The trip on the Hogwarts Express was very quiet. Hermione and Ron sat in an
empty compartment talking very little. Much of the journey was spent
staring out of the window. The other students left them alone. Their
sadness was very personal. They needed space alone. The fact that Harry was
not sitting with them was a continual pain. They imagined him laughing
about the term, deciding how to get his own back at the Dursley's and what
they'd enjoyed during the term. The train eventually pulled into Kings
Cross Station. On the platform Mr and Mrs Weasley were waiting for them.
Mrs Weasley was crying. She threw her arms tightly around both Hermione and
Ron,
"I'm so sorry. What can I say?"
None of them wanted to let go of each other, but eventually they let go and
Mrs Weasley ushered them out of the station.





--------




Chapter 15 Death and DisguiseThe colours were swirling around his eyes, red and gold. It didn't make any
sense. The colours swayed in front of his eyes. It took Harry several
minutes to work out where he was. He had a feeling he wasn't dead but he
wasn't sure where he was. He remembered smoke, and then the man- Snape. It
was Snape; Snape had been standing at the door. It was Snape who was trying
to get him. Why was he still alive, and where was he? His eyes had cleared
a little and slowly he sat up. He was sitting on a couch in a circular room
with red and gold panels. At one side there was a strange circular window.
He was in the Turkish room. Beside him sitting on an ornate wood chair was
Dumbledore watching him intently. Sirius was sleeping opposite the couch
lying on the floor, but was no longer in his goblin disguise. Harry stared
at them both his eyes questioning.
"Ah Harry," Dumbledore gave him a small smile and then continued softly, "I
think we owe you an explanation."
"Sir, it was Snape. I saw him." Harry burst out.
"Hush Harry. You will understand everything shortly. First for you to
understand the present I believe you must understand the past. Allow me to
tell you a little history. Please be patient, I will answer all your
questions presently.
About the time you were born I was present at a happy occasion. A married
couple, close personal friends of mine gave birth to a son. However the
happy morning was destroyed by a tragedy of the worst kind. The father had
been a close follower of Lord Voldemort, however had changed allegiances
and was now committed to bringing him down. To punish the father Lord
Voldemort broke into the house just after the happy birth and murdered his
newly born son, his beautiful wife and her sister. These tragic
circumstances would change any man and the father became harder, sterner,
some would not like him.
All was not as it seemed. Lord Voldemort needed more information about how
far he had been betrayed. He was not able to reach the father who was
protected, so earlier this year he performed dark magic that only he would
dare to perform. It is known as the Rite of Shakanti. It involves summoning
the spirits of the dead. He went to a graveyard and called the spirit of
the mother. He learnt not what he wanted to know but something worse, far
worse. The mother had given birth to twins. By summoning the spirit of the
sister, he was able to find out the fate of the second twin. On hearing the
mother being attacked, the sister had used a protection on the blanket that
the baby was wrapped in, and had laid the twin out of the window. She
managed to complete this before Voldemort hearing her burst in and killed
her also. The father in his grief never learned of his second son. This
child would be the ideal tool to punish the father further and help
Voldemort in his work. On finding this information, Lord Voldemort used
muggle channels to discover the whereabouts of this child. The baby
protected in its blanket was found by muggles a few hours after the death
of his twin, aunt and mother. As is usual in such circumstances, the child
was adopted into a muggle family. Voldemort using his dark powers found the
whereabouts of the child and killing the boy's adoptive parents in the
process, kidnapped the boy." Dumbledore stopped. Sirius was stirring, and
gradually pulled himself upright and came to sit next to Harry. Harry used
the pause to add a thought of his own,
"The Rite of Shakanti, it involves fires and Voldemort cutting his arm
doesn't it?" Dumbledore looked at him sharply,
"How do you know that?" he asked quickly.
"I saw it in a dream. It was in a graveyard. It was horrible." Harry
shuddered.
"Alas. That the scar will connect you, I fear. I am sorry you had to
witness that." Dumbledore paused in thought. "Have you had any other
strange dreams?"
"I see a boy. His name is Richard. I see him often."
"Richard. Richard- name is Richard." Sirius and Dumbledore stared at each
other. There was another long pause.
"Harry. The second twin. His name was Richard. Where was he? Do you know? "
 "He's in a cellar of some sort. Close to the sea I think. I could smell
the sea salt. In a sort of cellar."
"Interesting.that could be.well, we'll see, it gives us something to go on.
I expect you are wondering how the story affects you. You know the father.
It is Professor Snape." Nothing had prepared Harry for this. He looked at
Dumbledore in horror. No wonder Snape was so bitter.
"Voldemort has been in contact with Snape as I think you suspected.
Voldemort demanded your death for Richard's release. Snape was in an
impossible position. We discussed it in detail and eventually decided that
he would try to kill you. It had to be convincing. Together we set up the
hums. It was us who sent the goblet, but we made out biggest mistake.
Neville was not supposed to drink it. Sirius was to knock it out of your
hands before you drank a second mouthful. A single sip would have made you
ill, but it would not have been enough to kill you." Sirius spoke for the
first time,
"I'm so sorry Harry. Can you forgive me?" Then Dumbledore continued,
"Then two days ago Voldemort contacted Professor Snape again. He gave an
ultimatum. If you weren't dead by the end of the week then Richard would
die. We knew that if Snape didn't kill you He would find someone who could
and would. This coincided with your concerns for your friends. You wanted
to get your friends out of danger, and they certainly would be if Voldemort
tried to attack Hogwarts. So we "killed" you. The whole wizarding world
apart from Professor Snape, Professor McGonegall, Sirius and myself
believes you to be dead."
"What about Ron and Hermione? They know too don't they?" Dumbledore looked
slightly guilty.
"Voldemort will check all possibilities. He will not believe us cruel
enough to deceive your closest friends. He will be watching the Weasleys. I
wish with all my heart that this was not necessary but we didn't have much
choice. If we are to beat Voldemort then sometimes it is necessary to be as
ruthless as he is." Harry sat back weakly, digesting what he'd been told.
Sirius sat next to him and put his arm protectively around Harry. After
several minutes Harry asked
"So now what do I do? And what will happen to Richard?"
"Well I am fairly sure that everyone believes you to be dead, even Lord
Voldemort. He will naturally be suspicious, but I believe that there will
be no evidence to the contrary. He will send out spies, so I have taken the
liberty of making the window invisible from the outside so you should be
quite safe here, unless one of the four I mentioned are captured, there is
no evidence of you. For the moment we believe you to be safe. Sirius will
repay his debt to you and become your secret keeper. I in turn will become
Sirius's secret keeper. As for Richard we are not sure. Voldemort may keep
his side of his bargain, but I see no reason why he should.
You must wonder why we went to such pains to disguise your death with
little hope of reward. Voldemort will be thrown by this move. He may trust
Professor Snape enough to let him become a Death Eater again, or he may
kill him. Professor Snape is willing to take the risk it may be his only
chance to exact revenge on Voldemort. However his main hope is to rescue
his son. Your safety is equally important. Voldemort now has great power.
Hogwarts may not be safe. He may have the strength to enter it normally, or
more likely use his contacts in The Ministry of Magic to enter. With the
students home and you believed dead, I think I have minimised the risk to
all.
"As for what you are to do now, I think the simplest answer is nothing. I
will arrange for your Quiddax set and books for you to use. Is there
anything else we can provide you with?" Harry shook his head dumbly.
"One more thing Harry. I know that there is no love lost between you and
Professor Snape. However, I will personally vouch to the great risks he has
been through to protect your life. He has put his life in danger by
protecting you. Not only that, he has risked what is most precious to him
for your safety. He could have taken the easy path and crossed to the dark
side, even if he hadn't he could have killed you to get back his son. I
don't expect you to be friends now but I would like you to respect the
sacrifices he has made for you. If Voldemort ever finds the extent of his
deceit and seeks revenge then Professor Snape will pay the greatest price
for your life." Dumbledore was staring straight at Harry. Harry looked away
embarrassed.
"I'm sorry sir," Harry wasn't sure what he was apologising for, but it
seemed the right thing to say.
"I understand how you must be feeling. This is an adult's burden on one who
has already suffered much. I honour you Harry."
 With that Dumbledore left the room, his midnight blue cloak sweeping the
floor. Sirius was watching Harry carefully. Remembering Sirius's mood at
the Snow Ball, Harry asked Sirius,
"What do you think about all this?"
"I believe that some of the measures that Professor Dumbledore have taken
are a little excessive, however your safety is most important to me and I
therefore consent to Professor Dumbledore's actions. You should be safe
now. I would like to express my deep regret for Neville's accident. I was
entirely to blame. I would apologise to him, but I wouldn't be able to
explain everything. He is alright though," Sirius added catching Harry's
worried expression, "We were foresighted enough to have an antidote which
revived him within a few hours. We had to pretend that it was worse than it
was to continue the deceit. We do not know how far Voldemort has penetrated
Hogwarts, whether he has willing or unwilling servants here. Some of the
older students are not above suspicion. Voldemort we hope will have
believed what his spies have told him."
"Sirius, I know I'm supposed to like Snape, but why does he hate me so
much? I know he still hates my father, but I think there is more than
that." Sirius considered it so long, that Harry thought that he wasn't
going to answer.
"I don't know for sure Harry, I don't know everything Dumbledore knows, but
Richard is about the same age as you. The death of his family is enough to
unsettle any man, I think he seems to hate the Ministry because they failed
to protect his family.but he hates you I think because you survived You
Know Who's wand whereas his own family perished. It's funny how grief can
affect people. Anyway, I beseech you not to consider the subject
further.There is one last thing. In case our secret is discovered we,
Dumbledore and I have decided that, if you are willing, you should learn to
apparate." That Harry thought was the first piece of good news he had heard
all day.Harry soon found that being dead wasn't all it was made out to be. He was
restricted to the Turkish room and after a day he was extremely bored. His
Quiddax set was a great help in helping him keeping his mind off being
bored. Much to his disappointment, studying to apparate involved a lot of
reading and preparatory work. Sirius found him many books to read on the
subject that seemed to paint a very dangerous picture of apparation. There
seemed to be many descriptions of splinchings. Connor Denk in 1125 became
the first person to leave his headless body behind. This had contributed to
many muggle ghost stories around the area. It was nearly a week before
Harry was given his first lesson on how to actually apparate. As with most
hard spells it wasn't the words you said or the action with the wand that
meant you could do it, but the concentration. Sirius taught him how to let
his mind go completely blank and concentrate on precisely where he was
going. Any distractions to this single thought would cause him to be
splinched. You didn't actually need to have been to the place before. Harry
practised hard at his concentration skills, but Sirius wouldn't teach him
any more;
"As Hermione has reminded you numerous times, you can't apparate within
Hogwarts grounds. We'll have to go somewhere else to do that." The next day
Harry left the Turkish Room for the first time since his "death". Using his
invisibility cloak he followed Sirius out of the Turkish room. They went a
short way down the corridor before Sirius whispered Oblivion to a Victorian
witch sitting next to a boiling cauldron. Her portrait lifted slowly up to
revel a small door. They passed through it and found themselves at the top
of a flight of small circular steps that led steeply down and down. Sirius
said lumos, and a pale light cut through the blackness. The steps went down
and down, until Harry guessed they were far under the castle. They walked
through dark, dank passages that lead deep under the castle. The stale air
smelt murky and stifling, and drips slip down the walls. They had been
walking in a straight line for nearly ten minutes when the passage abruptly
stopped. There was a ladder attached to the wall, which they climbed. They
hadn't gone far when they reached a trap door, which Sirius threw open.
Harry knew they were well out of the castle, and maybe beyond the Hogwarts
grounds, but the circular staircase had confused his sense of direction.
Harry climbed out of the tunnel and found himself in what looked from the
inside like a muggle potting shed. It was made of weathered wood, smelled
musty and had a small window at one end. Outside there were towering trees,
and Harry realised they must be in the Forbidden Forest.
"Are you still with me?" whispered Sirius looking in completely the wrong
direction.
"Yes," Harry replied whispering so loudly that Sirius jumped.
"It's alright. We don't have to whisper here. It's sound proof, and no one
can see in. Right. I need you to sit and concentrate on this shed, like I
told you to do yesterday. You will be apparating here, and you need it
crystal clear in your head. Oh, and you can take off your invisibility
cloak. No-one but the centaurs know of this room, and they will be sleeping
as likely as not." Harry took of his cloak, and surveyed the room. It was
so plain, that Harry found it hard to remember. As he looked, Harry found
for the first time that there were two trap doors on the floor, and there
was no door. The floor was varnished wood, and the window was slightly
grimy. There were no items of furniture, but on the wall nearest to Harry
was a large knot in the wood. It looked oddly like a head. Harry stared at
it, he could see a mouth, and it somehow seemed to be screaming in agony.
He shuddered involuntary. It reminded him of the spirit that Voldemort had
called from the grave. He looked round the room one more time, and then
nodded at Sirius. Sirius opened the other trapdoor and went down some
steps. Harry followed, and shortly they found themselves in another room.
This was circular in shape, and the walls were made of gnarled wood. Harry
suddenly realised that they were inside a huge tree. This room was
obviously better-used than the shed they had just come from. It contained
what looked liked a wardrobe and cupboards and even had a small couch.
There was a door cut out of the tree trunk but there were no windows. Light
streamed in from hollows high in the tree.
"This is Professor Dumbledore's apparating chamber. This is where he
apparates from if he needs to leave in a hurry. We are in a large tree near
the gates, on the edge of the Forbidden Forest." Harry had a sudden
thought. This was a way out of the castle, but he couldn't remember seeing
anything about it on the Marauders Map. He asked Sirius who replied in
surprise,
"How did you get hold of that? It was of great use to us." Harry had
forgotten that Sirius was one of the makers,
"Well Dumbledore wouldn't let us know all the secrets of Hogwarts would he?
There are many places we knew nothing about, they are hidden by concealing
charms and repelling charms. Our limited schoolboy seeking charms could
only find those that were forgotten about, or not protected. Trust you to
get hold of that. How did you come by it, you never told me?" Harry felt he
shouldn't say but he knew Sirius wouldn't let it go any further.
"The Weasley twins," he said at last. Sirius grinned,
"I might have guessed. I wonder how they got it. Anyway no matter. Let's
get on with this. Sit on that stool and concentrate on the room we left. It
has to appear so clear in your head that you could actually be there. Harry
concentrated, he could see some things, but he didn't feel like he was
actually there. He told Sirius,
"You better go back, and see if you can memorise it better, I don't want to
take any risks. You must know exactly where you're going. Go back. I'll
wait for you here." Harry slipped back along the passage, and sat on the
floor of the shed room trying to remember every detail. After several
minutes he felt he had committed it to memory and returned quickly to
Sirius. Sirius looked pleased.
"Now apparation is hard to learn, but is easy when you get the hang of it.
Firstly recreate the room in your head. Then you need to hold your wand
like this, and say the apparating spell. I will demonstrate first and
return to you before you do it yourself." Sirius stood in the middle of the
room, held our his wand at right angles to his body and gave it a sharp
flick, saying Locomotis Apparatus. Then next moment he was gone. Harry was
feeling very nervous. He was terribly afraid of getting splinched. There
were butterflies roaming his stomach, but he tried to ignore them. Sirius
apparated back within seconds.
"Perhaps before we actually do it, you'd better practise the wand movements
again. It's straight ahead, and a sharp flick. Like this. And the words.
They must be stressed at the right place - LOCOmortis APParaTUS. Harry
practised the words and actions a few times. Sirius seemed pleased.
"Now picture yourself in the room. That's the trick. To picture yourself in
the room. I'll follow you, wait for me there. In your own time." Harry
ignored the urge to be sick, and banished the pictures from the book
showing people being splinched. He cleared his mind of everything except
that small room that smelled musty and had a large knot that looked like a
woman screaming and had a dusty floor, and grimy windows. Before he knew
really what he was doing he had the wand out in front of him and was saying
locomotis apparatus. His body was wrenched sharply, like being in a
speeding car that has just done an emergency stop. This is it he thought.
I've been splinched. He opened his eyes, which he hadn't realised he'd
closed and found himself staring at the wooded wall of the shed. A huge
wave of relief flooded him. It wasn't that hard. He could do that again.
Sirius appeared beside him.
"Well done Harry. That was your first apparation. It's a wizarding
tradition to have a small cake called an apparating cake. He produced one
from his coat. It was green and orange and had black lumps in it. Harry was
about to ask what the black lumps were, but when one of them moved he
thought he'd rather not know. He took the small cake, and took a large
bite. The result was incredible. It was a cross between the hottest curry,
and a mouth full of fizzing sherbet. His whole mouth seemed to be spitting,
bubbling and on fire at the same time. Harry swallowed it quickly, tears
coming to his eyes. As it went down his throat, his entire body tingled
like pins and needles all over. Sirius was watching him happily,
"It's not usual to take such a big bite," he said with a broad smile. Harry
quickly wiping his eyes, stared at the remainder of the cake with
suspicion. He was sure one of the black beans was waving at him. Assuming
it was his eyes he rubbed them again. The black bean now looked like it was
leering at him. Harry was sure it had a little grinning face.
"Do you want any more?" Sirius asked. Feeling it would be impolite not to
eat it Harry regretfully took a smaller bite than before. Oddly enough he
found the experience quite pleasurable this time. It was a fizzing
sweetness, with a sharp after-taste. He finished off the cake and smiled
back at Sirius.
"OK then Harry let's have a few more apparations and then we'll head back
to the castle. He disappeared and Harry his mouth still fizzing, imagined
the tree house in his head and followed him.
(oHo





--------




Chapter 16 SacrificeAfter his first apparating lesson Harry was only allowed to visit the
apparating chamber once more. It's too dangerous Sirius told him. Harry was
soon bored rigid in his room. He spent many hours playing Quiddax, but he
longed to talk to someone his own age. He wanted to see Ron, Hermione and
Cho again. He wanted to talk about anything that wasn't about life and
death. He'd even be glad to exchange insults with Malfoy. Even being beaten
by Malfoy in a fight would be better than this solitude. Sirius tried but
Harry felt that even he was getting fed up with their confinement in the
Turkish room. He was allowed to roam the castle, but had to do so under the
disguise of the polyjuice potion. Harry was fed up of chess, fed up of
staring out of the window, fed up of reading, and even fed up of Quiddax.
Most of all he was fed up of being in the red room. It was driving him
crazy. He had been in it for nearly four weeks. It was on his twenty-fifth
day of confinement that Dumbledore came to visit him again with news.
"Professor Snape has returned. Voldemort has demanded your body. He is
desperate to know whether you are truly dead. The entire wizarding world
believes so and even his highest placed spies have no news. However he
demands proof. Richard we know is still alive. I have thought long and hard
as to the course of action and I have decided. The risk is great to all
involved. This is why I wish to discuss it with you before going ahead.
Voldemort demands a body, and so we must give him one. Obviously we cannot
send you, but I will go instead." Harry's blood froze. This was surely
suicide.
"You can't go sir. It's far too dangerous. He'll kill you!"
"It may be our only chance." Dumbledore was stood tall and resolute. His
grey hair flowed like rivers down his shoulders, and he looked stern and
strong. His eyes were full of a fierce energy as he continued.
"aHGHHHe has killed many of my friends, this could be the last time I have
the strength to protect the friends I have left. I may have the power to
defeat him. Either way it is better to die now than to grow like an old and
withered tree while those who surround me are in desolation. You cannot
persuade me otherwise. My mind is made up. I shall require a hair from you.
Professor Snape will make the necessary potion, for I will have to appear
as dead. Voldemort will surely want to see you with his own eyes and
although the future is cloudy I believe he may be alone. That will be my
opportunity." Dumbledore glanced out of the window; Harry looked at him in
awe.
"The real danger comes if I do not succeed. My death may be swift if my
disguise is a surprise, but if it is not then, I may be overpowered. Your
whereabouts together with the fact that you are alive may be extracted from
me by dark magic, though I would rather die than let this happen. Sirius
will be with you but you may need to apparate. I believe your tests have
been successful. Sirius will teach you where to go. I will try and send a
message but perhaps it would be best to wait in the apparating chamber. I
am sorry about the risk this gives you Harry."
"It is nothing to what you are going to do," Harry replied, still in
disbelief.
"I shall leave tomorrow then. I honour your courage Harry. If we do not
meet again, I hope you will understand what I have done. Your courage is
outstanding and you have acted as your father would have done. This is the
highest praise I can give you. Good bye Harry Potter and good luck."
"Sir, I hope we meet again," Harry said in a small voice. He wanted to say
more but somehow he knew Dumbledore knew what he wanted to say. Dumbledore
came forward and shook Harry's hand with a solemn shake. He left the room.
Harry felt a great sadness in his heart. He didn't know if he could bear
any more partings or grief. Harry was very quiet for the rest of the day.
He read his book for his History of Magic lessons, The Life of Lord
Voldemort. There were still many chapters that the book wouldn't let him
read. Harry wondered if he and his parents were mentioned in it. For a
moment he remembered the green light and his parents voices. He wondered
what they would think of him now. To take his mind off his parents, Harry
read the chapter on the silver chair again and again thinking about
Richard. Richard still appeared to him in his dreams, but he was just
sitting there. Harry tried to speak to him, but got no answer. The dream he
had had last night was different. Richard had tried to speak to him. He had
tried to tell him something, but Harry couldn't work out what it was.
Harry only picked at his chicken and ham pie that night. He didn't feel
hungry. He felt slightly sick and after drinking only water he went to bed.
That night he dreamt again.
Richard was still in the chair, but he spoke. His voice came strong and
clear. Harry listened,
"You can hear me. I know you can. You must listen. It's a trap. He knows
you're alive, he can change into a bat, and he's been into Hogwarts and
found out about you. He knows what Dumbledore is going to do. It will be
his greatest victory. He will defeat Dumbledore, seek his revenge on
Professor Snape and kill you. There will be no stopping him then. He tells
me everything. You must stop him. He doesn't know I can see you though.
Stop Dumbledore. You've got to warn him."
Harry woke up covered in sweat. It was dark outside; stars were glowing
lonely in the sky. There was a hint of the rosy dawn over the misty hills.
Harry lit the lamp by his table. Sirius stirred. Should he wake Sirius?
Sirius would try to stop him. First he'd find Dumbledore. If he could tell
Dumbledore then he'd tell Sirius. Grabbing the invisibility cloak he flew
out of the room. He was outside Dumbledore's office when it suddenly
occurred to him that he didn't know where Dumbledore slept. He surely
didn't sleep in his office. He should have awakened Sirius. Cursing his
stupidity he ran panting back to the Turkish room, tripping and gasping. He
shook Sirius violently. Sirius however rolled over and moaned. Harry yelled
in exasperation. Sirius rolled over again, and this time his eyes opened.
He looked up and sat up quickly.
"Harry!" he called wildly. "Harry where are you?" Harry realised that he'd
still got the invisibility cloak on. He threw it off.
"You've got to take me to Dumbledore. He knows. He knows everything. It's a
trap." Sirius looked at Harry rather disbelieving, but proceeded to take
Harry to the teacher's wing. Harry followed wishing Sirius would hurry. At
the end of a long hall with a thick red carpet was a heavy door. Sirius
rapped on it smartly. Harry had no time for such pleasantries and grabbed
the handle. He threw the door open. Inside was a four-poster bed with deep
purple hangings with embroidered gold stars, tied to the posts. The bed
itself was neatly made and the plush curtains in the window were drawn, so
that the rising sun lit the room uncompromisingly. The bed was empty. Harry
moaned as if in pain. He was too late. Harry knew what he must do. He
turned to Sirius.
"You must get who you can. Voldemort's at the castle where the silver chair
is! The Island of Clre. Harry turned and slipped the invisibility cloak
on. Sirius saw what he was doing.
"Harry YOU ARE NOT TO GO AFTER HIM!" Sirius yelled desperately. He got his
wand out and used a stunning spell down the corridor where he thought Harry
might be, but Harry had gone. Harry ran as fast as he could to the portrait
of the Victorian Witch. He flew down the steps and ran along the passage at
the bottom. He could hear Sirius lumbering far behind him,- Harry don't do
it! Sirius shouted again. Harry ignored him. He had to apparate to Richard.
Together they would know what to do. He was running as he'd never run
before, along the straight paved passage, and through the trapdoor. He took
off the invisibility cloak and stuffed it in his pocket. He then stood
panting in the first hut, and tried to make his mind go clear. It was very
hard to make every thought and worry leave his head. He pictured Richard
and the silver chair. He saw the brick walls, and the gloominess of the
room. He smelt the sea area, and banishing the nervousness to the back of
his head flicked his wand and said the spell. The sickening lurch seemed to
be a hundred times bigger, icy wind whistled past his ears and he seemed to
be spinning out of control. His feet hit the ground sending him reeling.
Harry looked round in amazement. He was in the room of his dreams. Richard
was in front of him trapped in the silver chair. Richard's eyes were wide
in amazement. He spoke quickly and urgently.
"Harry. It is Harry isn't it. I know you even though we haven't met. You're
a wizard. My father. You've got to warn my father. He's going to kill him.
The wizard that's kept me here is going to him." Richard talked in a low
frantic voice. Harry stared at Richard. He looked like Snape, no, he looked
like what Snape would look like if he wasn't continually scowling and
leering, and was thirty year younger.
"I've got to get you our first. Do you know how I can do that?"
"He controls it with his mind, it's like it's alive when he is here. I
don't think you can. You must save my father."
"Your father would want to save you first." Harry told him, thinking hard.
He couldn't see any way to defeat the silver chair. There was no way that
it would obey him. He wasn't the tiniest bit as powerful as Voldemort and
he was no dark wizard. Harry suddenly felt out of his depth. Here he was in
Voldemort's castle, trying to outwit him when he was the person Voldemort
most wanted to kill. No one else knew exactly where he was and there was no
one who could help him before Voldemort got there.
"Please do something!" Richard's voice broke through Harry's thoughts.
Harry rushed forward and tried to pull the twisted tentacles. The silver
felt very cold and stung him as he touched it. Ignoring the blistering
hands Harry tugged at the bonds, but they relented not. Exhausted, his
hands red raw and blistered, Harry fell back exasperated. What could he do?
He took his wand out and conjured a flame. He directed in at the shining
vines of silver, but the result was a loud hiss and the chair wrapped
itself tighter around Richard. Harry thought again. What would Hermione do?
Look in the library. He didn't have the time to do that. Think Harry think
he thought furiously. There must be some way to get Richard out of this. He
must get Richard out. What if Richard changed shape? Transfiguration was
too risky. He couldn't do that to a human. He couldn't transfigure the
chair either. Richard was trapped in it. He needed to change Richard, a
potion should do it, a potion that made you smaller. He couldn't get it
though, not without going back into Hogwarts. Then it hit him.
"Richard. I have to go but I'll be back in moments." Harry said quickly,
Richard nodded. Harry thought of the wooden hut and found himself back
there. Pointing his wand in the direction of Hogwarts he said loudly and
clearly,
"Accio Potion." At first he thought it hadn't worked, but then whizzing
through the open trapdoor came a small glass vial, fizzing slightly. Harry
reached out and grabbed it shouting with amazement. He apparated back to
Richard.
"Take the smallest of sips of this." Richard looked at him questioningly
but complied. He started to shrink; the bonds of the silver chair couldn't
get a grasp on him. Richard slipped out and landed at Harry's feet the size
of a garden gnome. Harry picked him up, and covering them both with the
invisibility cloak tried the door. He wanted to apparate, but he knew that
apparating with a live passenger wouldn't work. The door was locked but the
alohomora charm allowed Harry to pass out of it safely. He climbed a long
flight of steps and found himself in a dark corridor. Harry walked silently
and swiftly down it. It ended in a large stone staircase, below was a huge
black and white tiled floor. Harry had to get out of the castle. He
descended the stairs and saw in front of him a huge wooden door. He
couldn't risk going out of it, but he didn't want to waste precious time in
finding another exit. Hesitating for a moment Harry decided to risk it.
Opening with difficulty the heavy doors he slipped, out. Harry sighed with
relief. Outside the sky looked stormy and there was the path leading to the
sea. Harry ran down the path towards sweeping sand dunes. Land was visible
in the distance. Harry had to get Richard off the island. Harry crept off
the path and along the beach. In his arms Richard was getting heavier, the
potion was starting to wear off. Harry set Richard on the ground, and
waited until he recovered. Harry remembered the boats, but how would
Richard get to the Weasley's house? Then Harry remembered the Knight bus.
"Wait here," Harry told Richard. Harry threw the invisibility cloak around
his shoulders, and walked back to where Ron had lost his wand. It was
hidden in grass. Harry returned to Richard, and explained how to call the
Knights Bus and the password for the Weasley's security bench. He also
found a few sickles and galleons in his pocket, and gave them to Richard to
pay for the Knight Bus. He then showed Richard the row of green boats.
"I need to go back and find your father and Dumbledore," Harry said. "Can
you row a boat?" Richard answered quietly,
"Yes. My parents were fans of sailing. We used to go every summer. My
adoptive parents. They're dead now aren't they." He looked at the ground
sadly. Harry said urgently.
"Right, you know what you must do, please hurry."
"What about my dad?" Richard asked hurriedly.
"There are other wizards coming, they'll help. It'll be fine" Harry told
him, and gave him a weak grin, which was the best he could manage. Harry
didn't see how it could possibly be fine, him against Voldemort, the most
powerful wizard alive, apart from maybe Dumbledore who might already be
dead. Richard climbed aboard and saying a last goodbye, picked up the oars
and started pulling masterfully towards land. Harry felt his heart tugging
with regret. He wished he could accompany Richard, the last thing he wanted
to do was re-enter the castle, but he owed it to Dumbledore and Snape, both
had risked their lives in protecting him and now it was his turn to try and
repay them. Harry slipped the invisibility cloak back over himself and
headed back to the castle quickly. He'd already lost much precious time.
Thinking quickly, Harry apparated back into the shed,
"Accio Firebolt." His trusty broomstick sped towards him. Harry apparated
back to the island, and mounted his broomstick. If he lay flat over his
broomstick the invisibility cloak just covered it. Harry kicked off and
rose up the side of the castle. He peered into the empty rooms. Most of the
rooms seemed deserted and empty, some had sheets covering various lumpy
objects. Harry guessed that they were from the days when the castle was a
museum. Why hadn't they destroyed the chair? They should have destroyed the
whole castle, surely everyone could see it was evil. Quietly, Harry looked
in window after window, seeing no sign of life. Some of the windows were
broken and parts of the walls appeared to be crumbling away in places. The
fourth storey, the highest storey was particularly bad. Whole sections of
the wall were missing and rooms were exposed to the air. Harry was on the
fourth floor when he first heard voices. He dipped into a nearby room, the
wall between the two rooms was broken and a small bush was growing next to
it. Harry crouched by the wall. He could hear the conversation easily.
Snape's voice was clearly recognisable.
"I have him here master, as you ordered."
"Good. This will indeed prove your loyalty once more. I should kill you for
your treachery, but there are worse things than death. Let me see it. Bring
it out." By peering between a crack in the crumbling wall Harry could just
make out a bag. Snape emptied it on the floor. To his horror Harry saw
himself lying lifeless on the floor. Voldemort laughed. It made Harry
shiver. It's piercing cruelty was unavoidable. The pain from his scar shot
all over his body. Harry had to bite his lip hard enough to make it bleed
to avoid moaning with pain. Voldemort kicked the body on the floor,
"Fools, fools," he said in a cold voice. "You fools." He pointed his wand
at the body and whispered words that Harry couldn't hear. Dumbledore
appeared lying on the floor, but before he could even reach for his wand,
silver cords shot from Voldemort's wand and wrapped tightly around him.
Voldemort snatched the wand from Dumbledore's trapped hands, his high-
pitched laugh echoing round and round the ruin. Dumbledore didn't struggle
against his bonds. He looked old and resigned. It was all Harry could do to
prevent himself standing up and trying to take on Voldemort single-handed,
but he didn't know who else was in the room, he hadn't a chance to see. The
room could be crowded with Voldemort's followers. He knew Dumbledore could
see through invisibility cloaks, he could assume that Voldemort probably
could as well. Snape drew his wand and pointed at Voldemort,
"Avada Kedavra!" he yelled. Harry knew the killing curse couldn't be
countered, however Voldemort apparated immediately and appeared behind
Snape. Before Snape could utter another word a stream of red emitted from
Voldemort's wand and Snape slammed onto the floor.
"Crucius," Voldemort said slowly, enjoying Snape's screams that cut through
the air. Then Snape fell silent and lifeless to the floor. Harry felt sick.
He couldn't see if Snape was dead or just unconscious. Voldemort then faced
Dumbledore,
"Old fool! You thought your foolish disguise would work on me. You
underestimated me." Dumbledore stared at Voldemort without speaking.
Voldemort spat in Dumbledore's face.
"To think I feared you. I was wrong. You are too old now. This isn't your
fight; you should have retired in peace. It comes to this. I am in power
now, and there is nothing you can do, it will be your last challenge to
bring me to my full glory. The pupil teaching the teacher." Voldemort now
spoke to someone that Harry couldn't see.
"Take him down, we'll have our greatest moment soon." Three men in black
cloaks came forward, grabbing Dumbledore roughly, pushing him out of the
room. Voldemort kicked at Snape's body. There was no movement. Voldemort
swept round following the others out of the room. As soon as the door had
shut Harry flew over the low wall that separated the rooms. He knelt by
Snape. He had all the appearance of being dead. A thin trickle of blood
came from Snape's mouth. Harry knew he should feel for a pulse or
something, but he didn't know how to. He couldn't see any breathing. He
shook Snape, he refused to believe he was dead, he couldn't have come so
far, through so much to be dead. Harry caught the slightest movement of
Snape's hand. He was alive but only just. Pulling Snape onto his broomstick
was hard, but getting it to fly was dangerous. The invisibility cloak
didn't cover him, but Harry didn't think there would be anyone to see. The
broom seemed sluggish, and reluctant to move carrying two people. It did
eventually move and Harry holding tightly to Snape flew down to the ground.
He lay Snape gently on the ground, sheltered by a bush. He took off his
school cloak, and gently covered Snape with it. He then flew in through a
broken window and was able to find his way to the cellar where he knew
Voldemort would be heading. He would find Richard gone. He was at the top
of the steps, when he could hear a commotion. Voldemort had found Richard
was gone. What would he do? The three men that Harry had seen before rushed
up the stairs, but didn't see Harry under his cloak. That meant that
Voldemort and Dumbledore were left. Harry crept down the stairs ignoring
the stabbing pains of his scar. Voldemort was enjoying his power over
Dumbledore. Dumbledore was writhing in agony under the cruciatus curse. He
was still bound tightly by the ropes. How could he do this? Harry felt
tears coming to his eyes. He was totally helpless. Voldemort's laughs were
still echoing through the room. Dumbledore still said nothing. He didn't
even moan in pain.
"Where is Richard? He cannot be far away, we will find him. A foolish act.
And the Potter boy, where is he?" Voldemort asked. Dumbledore stared
defiantly at Voldemort. Voldemort spoke again
"Is he on the island, are you really that foolish? I can feel his presence.
I will find out anyway when you're under the Kallish Curse. You are
imbecilic indeed to believe that I will not find out. Do you not realise,
you are defeated old man? To think I believed you to be the only person to
defeat me, you aren't strong." He kicked Dumbledore again, and then he
pointed his wand at him. Dumbledore rose slowly from the floor. This is it
thought Harry. He will get put in the silver chair and be put under the
Kallish curse. This will be the end. Voldemort would be able to use
Dumbledore to get as much power as he needed. He couldn't let it happen: he
had to do something. Harry burst out from where he was behind the door.
Dumbledore's eyes widened in horror when he saw Harry. Voldemort turned to
see what Dumbledore was looking at. With all his might Harry shouted,
"Stupefy!" Voldemort recoiled slightly, but seemed unaffected. Voldemort
looked at him, his face pearl white, his lips thinly cruel and bloodless.
Harry couldn't move. He didn't know whether it was through fear or through
Voldemort's powers. He was thinking fast and with an enormous effort he let
himself fall to the floor, as he did so he slipped his wand out of Hagrid's
invisible holder and whispered,
"Narcannen Ristennen." The ropes fell back from Dumbledore. Voldemort
however was still taunting Harry and hadn't noticed his whispering.
"Harry, you can't even stand and face me, still its good of you could join
us, I have been expecting you." Behind him Dumbledore drew himself to his
feet, and with a booming voice which echoed around the chamber,
"Accio wands," Dumbledore and Voldemort's wands shot from Voldemort's
pocket into Dumbledore's awaiting hand. Voldemort turned to face
Dumbledore, Harry scrambled to his feet. Dumbledore stood tall and erect,
his eyes radiating a fearful power. There was a dreadful pause, but then
with terrible smoothness Voldemort stepped sideways and pulled a long
curved silver knife out of the air and pressed it against Harry's throat.
Voldemort stared triumphantly at Dumbledore,
"So you will kill me now?" he asked quietly. A tiniest tremor shook the
wand in Dumbledore's hand.
"Kill him sir," Harry yelled desperately. Voldemort laughed with the warmth
of a glacier,
"Noble to the end, just like your parents were when I killed them. Their
nobleness didn't save them then, and it won't save you either," Voldemort
taunted. "Now if you want this little boy to live you better drop your
wand," he told Dumbledore.
"Just do it now, kill him" Harry said again wretchedly. Dumbledore looked
sadly at Harry, then at Voldemort.
"Let him go," he said so quietly that Harry almost missed him. "You can do
what you want with me then." Voldemort laughed again.
"I know the boy's importance, get in the chair and it will be painless for
him." There was a long agonising silence, broken as Dumbledore's wand
clattered to the floor. Harry felt the knife tighten on his neck, as
Voldemort laughed, a terrible cold, high-pitched laugh.
"You weak fool, get in the chair," he sneered. Harry stared in horror as
Dumbledore moved very slowly towards the chair, never taking his eyes off
Harry and Dumbledore. He was half way there when muffled sounds came from
upstairs. Harry saw Voldemort's eyes flash towards the stairs. Dumbledore
paused. People were coming down the steps. Harry's heart sank still
further, the Death Eaters were back, had they found Snape? The door was
opening slowly, Harry held his breath ignoring the sharp pain at his neck.
The rest of the door was suddenly thrown open, and three wizards, led by
Professor Jenai charged through and shouted at the top of their voices,
"STUPIFY!"
Harry felt himself collapse slowly to the floor, the actions around him
slowed and Harry saw Voldemort turn towards the door, point his wand at
Professor Jenai. Professor Jenai's green eyes widened, her mouth fell open
slightly and slowly she crumpled to the floor, and the small room was
filled with green light.Harry could feel waves of warm comfort sweep over him, he lay back and
enjoyed the pink and grey lights that were floating around his head. Far,
far away in the distance Harry heard a small tinny voice say enervate. The
mists cleared and Harry was suddenly back in the small dungeon, which was
now full of wizards; there was a lot of shouting, and confusion. An elderly
wizard bent over him. Harry looked round bewildered, where was Voldemort,
where was Dumbledore, and what happened to Professor Jenai? The elderly
wizard, was suddenly pushed aside by Sirius, who had just apparated next to
him. He threw his arms around Harry, and held him tightly. Harry waited
until Sirius let go, before mumbling,
"Where did He go?"
"Apparated," said Sirius. Dumbledore appeared by Sirius's side. Dumbledore
looked grave.
"Sirius," he said. Sirius looked up at Dumbledore eyes that were full of
pain. Sirius's face suddenly paled.
"Romila!" he said desperately. He searched wildly with his eyes round the
dungeon. By the door, five wizards were crowded round the lifeless body of
Professor Jenai. Sirius flung himself to her side. Harry watched as Sirius
threw his arms round her, tears filled his eyes. Harry felt as though his
body had been flung into ice as he watched sobs rack Sirius' body.
"His daughter," Dumbledore said so only Harry could hear. Suddenly Harry
remembered the couple walking in the moonlight. Not Snape, but Sirius.
There was a pause when neither Harry nor Dumbledore spoke. Suddenly they
both seemed to come out of a trance,
"We must see to Snape" Dumbledore said, looking at Harry gravely.
"He's safe. He's hidden under a bush, and he was alive when I left him."
Dumbledore looked at Sirius, the other wizards had retreated. Professor
Jenai looked more beautiful than ever. Dumbledore wiped a tear from his
eye, and said still not looking at Harry,
"You did do things well. I suppose it was you who rescued Richard also."
Harry nodded numbly,
"He's on his way back to land. I've given him directions to the Weasley's
house."
"Fuggio," Dumbledore said solemnly. There was another long pause. Sirius
got up, and returned to Dumbledore, his face ashen. Dumbledore addressed
them both in a low grave tone,
"You must go to the Weasley's, you should be safe there. Fuggio, I know you
are grieving, but please go with him, I trust only you. I will come and get
you when it's time. but before we do anything, I must destroy what should
have been destroyed many years ago. Off you go Harry." Beside him Sirius
said quietly "The Burrow," and apparated with a small pop. Harry's last
sight was Dumbledore, muttering deeply, his brow furrowed in concentration,
a large brown cloud swirling and forming around his wand. Small bolts of
lightening flashed eerily. The next moment he was out of the room. Harry
found himself not outside the Weasley's house where he had expected to be,
but a little way away. He could see the Burrow in the distance. Harry
wondered what had gone wrong; he'd done everything right he was sure. He
started to walk across the field towards a stile in the hedge. The sun was
high in the sky, and he could hear the sparrows in the hedge. The grass
brushed gently against his knees. He had just reached a stile on the far
side, when he heard a voice that cut through the warm air like a knife. His
blood froze. It's bitter and cruel tones were Harry's worst nightmare.
Harry turned and faced Lord Voldemort.





--------




Chapter 17 The final challenge"So we meet again Harry. So soon" Voldemort sneered, his lips twisted in a
cruel taunt. "Now it is my pleasure to finally finish your life. No caring
head teacher to save you now." Harry reached for his wand, but it slipped
from between his fingers into the long white talons of Lord Voldemort.
Suddenly Voldemort convulsed. He started, and seemed to be in great pain,
"The chair. He's destroying the chair," he whispered, his face contorted in
horror. Harry still didn't dare to move. Voldemort steadied himself but his
wand shook as he held it in his hand. He threw Harry's wand down and
reached inside his dark robes.
"He can destroy the chair, but he can't save you. I may be weakened, but I
am still powerful" Voldemort hissed. His hand emerged with the glittering
silver knife. It shone white in the sunlight, the blade was long and
engraved with twisted snakes, the handle was made of two coiled snakes and
their eyes were two rubies. Voldemort reached for his wand.
"Kneel boy, the end has come" Looking into the black pools of Voldemort's
eyes Harry felt hope desert him. There was no one to help him here. Still
he didn't have to die on Voldemort's terms.
"No" Harry said quietly. Immediately he felt the floaty feeling. His mind
had been taken over. He just wanted to relax, but the small voice was
there. Refuse him, don't do what he wants. Harry didn't want to obey, but
the pressure forcing him to his knees was immense. Harry thought quickly.
He couldn't escape; it would probably be best for Voldemort to think he was
weaker than he actually was. Harry knelt in front of Voldemort. The
gleaming knife was in front of him. He was going to die. Harry half-closed
his eyes and waited for the knife to sweep across his neck. He waited, and
waited, his heart in his mouth wanting it to be over. He could feel the sun
beating on the back of his neck, and far away birds were singing. There was
a slight breeze on his cheek. Harry stared at the tight black boots that
Voldemort was wearing. Harry wasn't going to die without a fight. He
tensed, every muscle waiting for the word. Harry saw Voldemort's arm sweep
down, there was a sudden sharp pain on Harry's neck, but Harry had grabbed
hold of Voldemort's arm, he swung it away from him. Voldemort let out a cry
of surprise; Harry rolled towards his wand and grabbed it. He could see
Voldemort clutching his leg where the silver knife was embedded. Harry was
shaking so much he couldn't keep hold of his wand. His throat burned, but
at the same time it felt like ice, and Harry could feel blood pouring from
it. Things were becoming blurred and dark. He couldn't move. Distantly he
could hear Voldemort's voice. It all seemed so far away. Suddenly, abruptly
Harry heard a heavy thud in front of him, and his eyes instinctively
opened. Bill and Charlie Weasley were both on brooms and were staring at
him with as much astonishment and horror as Harry was staring at them.
Voldemort was gone. The knife was lying on the grass, it's tip covered in
blood.
"Harry!" Charlie and Bill said in amazement.
"Charlie" Harry said thickly. "Bill"
"What are you doing here?" they both asked in unison.
"Who was that?" Charlie asked, still looking confused. Feeling extremely
confused Harry tried to answer their questions.
"It was Voldemort. He was about to kill me." The brothers drew back as he
said the name. Harry's head felt cloudy. He couldn't think straight, he
could hardly see a thing, it was as if he were lost in a thick fog at
twilight.
"A goblin saying he was your godfather started yelling at us, that you were
alive, but lost, but you're dead. Everyone thinks you're already dead.
Dumbledore said so, the Ministry said so." Charlie said amazed. Harry
looked at their bewildered faces, and felt deadly tired. He couldn't see
properly. Everything was cloudy in front of his eyes. Harry tried to force
the words out, but he knew that it was no good. His neck and front felt hot
and sticky.
"It was to. to protect me. Dumbledore. he and Richard. Richard he was."
Harry was too tired to go on. He slumped forward, and everything went inky
black.Harry opened his eyes. Everything was orange. It took him a few moments to
realise where he was. He was in Ron's room, he could make out four people
standing by his bed, but his eyes were blurred, and he couldn't make out
who they were. He closed his eyes again, ignoring the sweeping dizzyness
that made him want to throw up. Eventually the dizziness went, and he was
able to see who the people were. Sitting closest to him were Ron and
Hermione. Sitting at the end of the bed was Dumbledore and Sirius. Ron was
the first to notice that Harry was awake. He let out a sharp yell. Harry
jumped.
"Harry you're back." Hermione threw her arms round Harry's face, her eyes
wet with tears. "We thought you were dead. We've been so upset. I'm so glad
you're alright." She said in a small voice. Harry pulled back touched, but
a little embarrassed. Ron too was looking a little emotional. Harry felt
tears come to his eyes. He'd missed his friends so much. Dumbledore came
closer to Harry,
"I will leave you for a while, but we must talk when you've finished your
reunion with your friends." Dumbledore gave a half bow to Harry and then
left. Sirius hung back in the shadows.
"Harry we're so glad you're alive. Everyone thought you were dead."
Hermione said again in a thick choking voice.
"Mum's been crying for days. I kept telling here you couldn't be dead, but
she didn't believe me," Ron said. "I knew you couldn't be dead. Anyway what
happened? Dumbledore wouldn't tell us anything. What happened to your
neck?" For the first time Harry noticed his neck, it was covered in
bandages and felt numb. Harry told them everything, right from the time he
went to look for Neville. Hermione eyes filled with tears again when she
heard that Harry came so close to death. Ron was in awe of Harry being able
to apparate, ("That's so unfair, you're not allowed to learn to apparate
until you're 17") and horrified when he heard about Dumbledore's disguise
and humiliation at the hands of Lord Voldemort. When he finally finished
Harry felt worn and Hermione and Ron were silent. It was a long time before
any of them spoke.
"So Snape is really on our side," Ron said eventually.
"I can't believe Dumbledore put you at risk so much." Hermione said
indignantly. "His plan was far too dangerous, the Ministry would never have
approved it."
"I doubt he even considered telling the ministry," Harry said. He then
voiced a thought he'd had for a long time. "I think he encouraged Snape to
act as he did so he would get a final chance at defeating You Know Who. He
didn't care if he died in the process, he doesn't want to get too old to
defeat You Know Who, or he gets too powerful to be defeated at all." Soft
knocking on the door interrupted their conversation. Mrs Weasley entered
carrying a large tray of cauldron cakes and a large flask of hot chocolate.
When she saw Harry sitting up in bed she stared, and said in little more
than a whisper,
"Oh Harry, I've been so worried." She quickly put the tray down on the
floor and bent over Harry and gave him a kiss on the forehead. She then
withdrew hastily from the room, clutching a small flowery hanky. Harry
suddenly felt a deep painful guilt. He'd taken so many risks with his life,
not thinking about what would happen to his friends if he did die. Ron saw
Harry's face,
"Don't worry about her, she's always been a bit emotional." Just then
Sirius spoke. He'd listened so quietly to Harry's story that they'd
forgotten he was there.
"Ron, Hermione, would it be alright if Dumbledore and I had a word with
Harry now." They both nodded, and after saying their goodbyes left the
room. Harry thought about their parting, was he now going to be in trouble?
He had left Sirius behind; he was going to be furious. Sirius waited until
the door was closed and Hermione and Ron's footsteps were gone before
speaking. His voice was grave, low and resonated with anger,
"Harry what you did was foolish and unforgivable. How am I supposed to
protect you if you disobey me and actively put yourself in danger?" Harry's
feeling of guilt increased, but another voice inside him said, what were
you going to do? You've saved Richard, Dumbledore and Snape. They would all
be dead if it wasn't for me. It was as if Sirius read his mind,
"However what you did was very brave. You are responsible for saving three
lives and the capture of three death eaters, including Mark Colligere. The
silver chair is destroyed, Voldemort is defeated for a while."
Harry suddenly remembered Sirius bending over Professor Jenai's body. The
look of complete anguish. Was he to blame for her death? How could Sirius
ever forgive him for that? Harry looked straight into Sirius's face, it was
carved with sadness, his eyes had almost lost the haunted look that they
had had after Azkaban, but it was replaced by a look of grief. Harry wasn't
sure what to say, but his guilt was as crushing as Sirius's grief.
"Sirius, I am so sorry about Professor Jenai. Romila. I'm so sorry for what
I did."
Sirius looked away from Harry, and seemed to be speaking in a trance.
"Her mother died when she was small. Alexandra, she was my wife, she was so
beautiful, and Romila was so like her, they were both so beautiful, and so
clever. Romila was top of her class. It broke my heart not to be able to
see her. Even when I got out of Azkaban I couldn't see her, it was too
dangerous, but Dumbledore let us meet last year and then she gave up her
job at the University of Magic, and came to be at Hogwarts so we could see
each other. She was special advisor to the ministry." Sirius finished
proudly, still looking blankly out of the window. Then he shook himself,
and looked directly at Harry. He spoke almost fiercely,
" You must not blame yourself for her death, if anyone is to blame its me,
I summoned her, and the other members of the ministry. She was the best,
and if it hadn't been for her there may have been more deaths. Together we
saved Dumbledore, Snape Richard and you. It could have been so much worse."
Sirius's voice was shaking, as if he was trying to convince himself. Harry
saw Sirius's eyes start to moisten, and Sirius turned away quickly and then
left the room. Harry thought of Professor Jenai. He remembered her sharp
teaching, and beautiful features. She had helped rescue Richard, Dumbledore
and Snape as much as he had. He remembered his first lesson with her, when
she had made him face up to his fear, and the unbinding lesson. Without
that he couldn't have saved them. In slow motion he remembered her falling
to the floor and Sirius bent over her like he was mortally wounded. The
door opened and Dumbledore entered. He drew up a chair and sat next to
Harry.
"So Harry, we both survived. I expect you are curious as to what happened;
however I think we should hear your story first. What happened from when
you left the Island of Clre?"
Harry told Dumbledore as best as he could, but he still wasn't sure what
had happened himself. He remembered Voldemort and the knife. He had been
cut, but Voldemort had been hurt, or was in pain, but it wasn't anything to
do with Harry. Dumbledore listened patiently and expressionlessly. When he
finished, Harry had about a hundred questions to ask.
"Sir when I apparated, why did I not arrive next to the house as I
imagined?"
"That, I believe, was Voldemort. He still had his powers, and guessed
correctly that I would send you to safety. He managed to manipulate the old
magical waves that allow wizards to apparate to bring you to him."
"And why did You Know. I mean Voldemort not have all his powers when he
tried too kill me, he appeared in pain and used a knife not his wand."
"His rapid rise to power meant that he had to use the Chair of Seolfar to
help him. He leaned to heavily on its strength, but he was too greedy to
regain power. When I destroyed the chair, he lost some of his powers. The
knife is symbolic. It is made from the same silver as the Chair of Seolfar.
There is an old magic that says that if he killed you at such a time with
the silver knife, then the power of the Lord Faulemort would live in him
instead of the silver chair. It was a desperate move, but he fortunately
didn't succeed.
"And now Harry you must rest. However before I take my leave I would ask
one more thing of you. The Chair of Seolfar is destroyed, and Voldemort has
been beaten this time. The wound that you have given him will not leave
him, and he will be weakened by it. The touch of the silver knife to the
wielder is a serious wound. He will return though, and we must be ready. My
request is that you tell the Ministry of Magic your story, and allow
yourself to be questioned. It is important the ministry realises what has
happened and what they must do. We have bought time, but our response was
too slow. It must not happen again. Will you help?"
Harry nodded, and Dumbledore left the room. Sirius entered and said,
"You will be tired, your wound was deep, and made with an evil weapon, you
must rest. I will be sleeping at the end of your bed tonight." Harry's
throat was throbbing uncomfortably, as he turned in his bed and tried to
get comfortable. Sirius drew the curtains and the room was filled with a
dusky glow as the sun tried to creep through the cracks around the fabric. Chapter 18 The Chamber of the StarsHarry's recovery was slower than he would have imagined for such small
wound. His throat felt continually cold, and even with Mrs Weasley's tender
care, it would not heal. Harry was able to move around the house, although
Mrs Weasley worse was than Madame Pomfrey for fussing. She wouldn't let him
out of the house, and definitely not going out for a walk or play
Quidditch. At Harry's insistence Sirius had apparated back to the Island of
Clre to get Harry's Firebolt. It was almost a week since Harry had faced
Voldemort when Mrs Weasley interrupted Harry and Hermione having a
ferocious game of chess.
"Harry you have a visitor." Harry couldn't guess who would want to be
visiting him. Mrs Weasley called through to where the visitor was waiting
in the hall. "You can come through." Bending his head low to fit through
the door Hagrid entered. Looking enormous in the Weasley's small lounge he
rushed over to Harry enveloping him in a giant hug, although carefully
avoiding Harry's neck.
"Oh Harry, yer've been so brave, and I was thinking you were dead, Ah've
never been so miserable. I can't believe yer really here." Eventually
loosened his grip on Harry when Hermione told him urgently that Harry was
looking a little blue. Harry was shocked to see large tears rolling down
his cheeks.
"It's alright Hagrid. Dumbledore was looking after me. I was perfectly
safe." A large blue stripy handkerchief was now muffling Harry's sniffles.
"It's been so horrible thinking you were dead." Hagrid said again. Harry
gave Hagrid a hug, although his arms only managed to reach round a portion
of Hagrid's enormous girth. Harry finally managed to stop Hagrid's weeping
and even managed to persuade him to play a game of chess. Hagrid was
surprisingly good at chess and was able to beat Harry with a little help
from Ron. It was gone midday when Hagrid told them that he'd better get
home to Fang and left. Ron followed him, but Mrs Weasley would not let
Harry see Hagrid onto the Knights bus. Hagrid and Ron had hardly left when
Mrs Weasley came through again announcing another visitor. Harry and
Hermione timidly followed her into the kitchen, where sitting at the table
there were two people. Snape was sitting next to Richard. At Snape's white
face, Harry involuntarily felt a chill: he still couldn't get used to the
fact that Snape was on the good side and had even risked his life to help
Harry. Harry's mind wouldn't let go of the hums and the shrinking potion.
He had acted the part of the villain too well. As Harry walked in Snape
stood up and held his hand out to shake Harry's. Harry shook the
outstretched hand awkwardly. It felt cold as marble. Harry sat down not
sure what to say. After an embarrassing pause Snape began,
"I, well Richard and I would like to thank you for what you did for both of
us." Although Snape appeared friendly, there was a coldness in his eyes
that showed that his love for Harry had changed little. "You showed
outstanding bravery and we both owe our lives to you." The sincerity of
these words were betrayed in Snape's black eyes. Harry feeling very
uncomfortable felt his face go red and hot as he replied,
"Thank you Professor, for protecting me." Harry hoped his words didn't
sound as insincere as he thought they did. Richard looked straight at Harry
for the first time. Harry felt that the bond that connected them was still
as strong as ever. Harry could hear Richard thanking him profusely for what
he had done, even though no-one else could hear a word. Harry told him it
was nothing, and that he'd like to meet up some time. They both suddenly
realised that the room was silent, and both Hermione and Snape were looking
at them oddly. Harry said,
"Are you going to Hogwarts then?" Richard answered immediately,
"Father has to sort it out with Professor Dumbledore, but I hope so." It
made Harry feel odd to hear Snape being called father and he was just about
to ask another question when Snape interrupted,
"Well Potter," Snape almost spat the word out, "we won't trespass on your
time further. I will see you next year when the school reopens. Good bye."
Richard cast a regretful look at Harry and told him in his head that he was
sorry his father didn't like Harry, but that he would like to meet up some
time. As he followed Snape out of the room, Harry told Richard that he'd
send an owl.
As soon as Snape and Richard had left the room, Hermione looked at Harry
questioningly,
"Is it me or was there a conversation that I wasn't hearing?" Harry replied
slowly,
"I don't know why, but I can speak to him in my head. That's why I knew
where he was being held prisoner. I think it's something to do with
Voldemort killing his twin, and my parents." Hermione looked surprised.
"I think I read about that in Magical Phenomena: Principles and
Interpretation. Hang on let me get it." She rushed upstairs looking
excited. She returned looking flushed and clutching a book bound in red
dragon skin.
"It's in here, Professor Jenai lent it to me for a bit of extra reading.
It's called the Ingle Jacksons Phenomenon. If someone kills a person's
family but if for some reason one of them survives and then the same
happens to another family using the same wand then they are connected.
Usually this is just feeling strong emotions or pain." She looked up
looking puzzled. "That doesn't explain why you can hear him though." She
buried her head in the book again. A few minutes later she continued,
"It's only a theory, but based on what it says I think that Richard's twin
allows you to talk. I don't understand it completely. This book is what
you'd study at university level." Just then Ron came back carrying a large
box of chocolate frogs.
"Hagrid says he forgot to give these to you," Ron said happily his mouth
full of chocolate.Even though he wasn't allowed out of the house, the week was a happy one
for Harry. He had missed the company of Hermione and Ron and it was fun not
to worry about anything and just be himself. It was at the end of the
second week that Dumbledore returned to the Burrow. He was very concerned
about Harry's wound. His whole neck was a horrible grey, and the cut was a
dull white. Although it wasn't painful, it had a low throb that never left.
Harry thought he might be making too much of it, but he was sure that it
was the wound that was making him feel continually tired. He voiced his
concerns to Dumbledore who then looked very worried.
"I am not an expert Harry, but I know this is serious. I wanted you to come
with me to the Ministry of Magic today. I think that when we have finished
there we should visit St Mungo's. They will be able to examine it. Shall we
go by Flue Powder, or apparate?" Eager to show his skills at apparating
Harry chose the latter. Dumbledore's eyes twinkled at him,
"Alright, we need to go to the Hilda Moss Room, The Ministry of Magic. You
need to concentrate on those words. And then apparate. Alright. Follow me."
And with that Dumbledore disappeared from sight. Harry concentrated hard,
and saying the words found himself travelling incredibly fast, so that
around him there was just a blur. Within seconds he hit the ground with
enough force to make his knees buckle, nearly throwing him to the floor.
Beside him Dumbledore gave a small chuckle.
"Nearly there Harry." Dumbledore now looked a little more serious. "Now we
will be meeting with the elected council of wizards. They will question you
much, I believe. Answer all their questions as truthfully as you can. They
may ask you questions about the events of last summer also." Harry suddenly
felt nervous, as if he was about to go on trial. He followed Dumbledore
into a gloomy room where five wizards were sitting on ornately carved
chairs. A single stained glass window depicting an elderly wizard defeating
a dragon lighted the room. Coloured pools of light were scattered over the
floor. The walls were panelled with a dark wood. Pictures of stern wizards
lined the walls, with long grey beards and flowing cloaks. The roof was
painted a midnight blue, through which small golden stars glowed. Cornelius
Fudge was sitting on the largest chair and it was him that spoke first,
"Welcome Harry, welcome to the Chamber of the Stars." Cornelius Fudge
beckoned to a chair that was facing the line of wizards. Nervously Harry
pulled himself onto the heavily varnished seat. Dumbledore took a seat at
the back of the room.
"Could you explain exactly what happened at the Triwizard Tournament when
you touched the Triwizard Cup," Cornelius Fudge began. Harry started and
tried his best to remember every detail and keep to the truth as much as
possible. The happenings of the last summer were still painful, but the
pain had faded slightly, and Harry was able to recount the circumstances of
Cedric's death, and then what happened on the Island of Clare.
Occasionally Fudge prompted him, but mostly he was left to tell his own
version of the past year. The sun was high in the sky when Harry finished
telling them about the final confrontation with Voldemort. The Chamber of
the Stars was silent until Harry finished. Fudge then gently unwrapped the
thick white bandage from Harry's neck and showed them the sickening grey
bruise that surrounded the cut made by the silver knife. Several of the
witches and wizards drew breath sharply as they saw the gash. Fudge too
drew back and looked grave,
"There is no mistake, this is a wound of the silver knife. Thank you Harry,
we want to talk to Professor Dumbledore now, would you mind stepping
outside." Harry gladly left the stuffy Chamber of Stars with its important
witches and wizards and flopped down on a red couch in the Hilda Moss Room.
In an ornate gilded frame a young looking witch with shining golden hair
was riding a flying carpet around some fluffy clouds in a sapphire sky. She
waved merrily at Harry before doing the loop a loop around a cloud. A large
window that looked over a neatly kept quadrangle, occasionally crossed by
witches or wizards talking easily, lighted the room. The sky outside was a
brilliant powder blue, and Harry suddenly felt a longing to be far away,
walking in fields without a care in the world. Instead Harry closed his
eyes and waited for Dumbledore to appear. It seemed many hours before
Dumbledore left the Chamber of the Stars. He gave Harry a small smile,
"Thank you for your patience. Now I do believe there is another member of
the Ministry who would like to talk to you." He smiled further at Harry's
puzzled face, but did not elaborate. Instead he left the Hilda Moss room
through a small door and Harry followed him. They passed along long halls
with stone flags and dark panelled walls. Many wizards did a double take
when seeing Harry, one wizard dropped a huge pile of parchment in his hurry
to shake Harry's hand, another witch, much to Harry's embarrassment tried
to kiss Harry's feet. His cheeks bright red Harry was immensely glad when
Dumbledore took a sharp turn travelled down a windy little staircase and
knocked on a small weedy looking door that said in rather faded letters LUDO BAGMAN Department for Magical Sports and Games
The door was opened at once, and Harry recognised the short ruffled outline
of Ludo Bagman.
"Pleased to meet you again, very pleased indeed," Ludo said trying to shake
Dumbledore and Harry's hand at the same time,
"Well come in, come in." Bagman's office gave the impression its last
resident had been a small tornado. Parchment covered every surface, while
the walls were covered with bright pictures of wizards and witches playing
Quidditch. Most of them featured a Quidditch player in Yellow and Black
stripy robes. A huge banner hung over Bagman's desk that read, WISBORNE
WASPS. Ludo beckoned them to sit on two chairs facing his desk. Harry moved
a large box of parchment scrolls and sat nervously on his seat wondering
why Bagman wanted to see him.
"Well Harry, I expect you're wondering why I've asked to see you." Harry
nodded.
"Well we've got a bit of a problem. It's not been well publicised, but we
have a British Under 18 Quidditch team, that's short of a seeker. I've
asked through all the British clubs, and none of the seekers are under 18.
So I asked Professor Dumbledore here if any of his students were of a good
enough standard, and he said that you were the best seeker they'd had for
many years. I was very impressed with your skills against the Horntail at
the Triwizard Cup, and although you are still very young for the team, we
think that your talent surpasses your age." Harry blushed a little, but
listened with growing excitement.
"So I have asked you here today to see if you'd be interested in joining
the team." Harry couldn't believe what he was hearing.
"Y.y.yes I w.would" Harry said stuttering, trying to get the words out.
Ludo gave a huge grin, leapt over his desk and patted Harry hard on the
back, almost making Harry choke.
"I'll send you an owl with the details of training and the date of your
first match. That's wonderful. Thank you very much Harry. All the games in
the under 18 league take place during the school holidays, so your
schooling won't be affected and I won't be getting any nasty owls from
Dumbledore here." Bagman was looking like Christmas has come early.
"Reminds me of the time when we were a beater short with the Wasps, his
grandmother had died, and he couldn't make the match, we nearly had to go
on with a player short, but just in time a bloke I know from the years
when."
"Anyway, thank you for your time, I'm sorry but we'll have to leave you
now," Dumbledore said swiftly giving Harry a look.
"Yes yes, time's precious, well thank you again Harry, expect we'll see
each other again soon. Might even see you in the English Quidditch team,
they often look at the under 18 teams to pick up any talent. Well, off you
go then. Good luck," and with that Harry and Dumbledore left the crowded
office of Ludo Bagman.
"What ever you do don't get Ludo started on the old days," Dumbledore told
Harry seriously. "He'll keep you there for hours if you let him. Now there
are anti-apparating charms on this part of the ministry so we'll have to go
a bit further away to apparate. Are you alright?" Dumbledore asked looking
at Harry's bandaged throat.
"Yes fine," Harry replied. It was hurting, but he didn't want to admit it
to Dumbledore. Dumbledore however, didn't look convinced. He said nothing
though, and instead took the lead along the corridors. Dumbledore seemed
very familiar with the twisting passages and hidden staircases. The
building seemed to have almost as many secret and hidden passages as
Hogwarts. They did finally arrive in the neat little quadrangle that Harry
had seen from the Hilda Moss Room. From the ground Harry could see the
intricate arches and covered walkway that surrounded the clean square of
grass. Stone serpents were wrapped round the pillars, while at each corner
perched a large winged dragon that flapped it's wings and breathed fire
when anyone passed.
"This is known as the apparating courtyard," Dumbledore told Harry. "The
dragons are specially trained. If anyone tries to use this area without the
Ministry's permission, they attack."
"But how come we were able to apparate straight into the Hilda Moss room?"
Harry asked.
"That together with the Chamber of the Stars is used for special occasions.
For example if we wanted to impress foreign wizards, it wouldn't look very
impressive if we made them apparate to here, so at special times we reverse
the anti-apparating charms on it. You're obviously important enough to use
the Hilda Moss Room." Dumbledore told him giving him a wide smile. His
tiredness had left his face and he was looking more like the Dumbledore
Harry had first met five years ago.
"Now we need to go St Mungo's Hospital. Are you alright apparating?"
"Yes I'm fine" Harry replied quickly. Beside him Dumbledore disapparated.
Harry followed.





--------




Chapter 18 The Chamber of the StarsHarry's recovery was slower than he would have imagined for such small
wound. His throat felt continually cold, and even with Mrs Weasley's tender
care, it would not heal. Harry was able to move around the house, although
Mrs Weasley worse was than Madame Pomfrey for fussing. She wouldn't let him
out of the house, and definitely not going out for a walk or play
Quidditch. At Harry's insistence Sirius had apparated back to the Island of
Clre to get Harry's Firebolt. It was almost a week since Harry had faced
Voldemort when Mrs Weasley interrupted Harry and Hermione having a
ferocious game of chess.
"Harry you have a visitor." Harry couldn't guess who would want to be
visiting him. Mrs Weasley called through to where the visitor was waiting
in the hall. "You can come through." Bending his head low to fit through
the door Hagrid entered. Looking enormous in the Weasley's small lounge he
rushed over to Harry enveloping him in a giant hug, although carefully
avoiding Harry's neck.
"Oh Harry, yer've been so brave, and I was thinking you were dead, Ah've
never been so miserable. I can't believe yer really here." Eventually
loosened his grip on Harry when Hermione told him urgently that Harry was
looking a little blue. Harry was shocked to see large tears rolling down
his cheeks.
"It's alright Hagrid. Dumbledore was looking after me. I was perfectly
safe." A large blue stripy handkerchief was now muffling Harry's sniffles.
"It's been so horrible thinking you were dead." Hagrid said again. Harry
gave Hagrid a hug, although his arms only managed to reach round a portion
of Hagrid's enormous girth. Harry finally managed to stop Hagrid's weeping
and even managed to persuade him to play a game of chess. Hagrid was
surprisingly good at chess and was able to beat Harry with a little help
from Ron. It was gone midday when Hagrid told them that he'd better get
home to Fang and left. Ron followed him, but Mrs Weasley would not let
Harry see Hagrid onto the Knights bus. Hagrid and Ron had hardly left when
Mrs Weasley came through again announcing another visitor. Harry and
Hermione timidly followed her into the kitchen, where sitting at the table
there were two people. Snape was sitting next to Richard. At Snape's white
face, Harry involuntarily felt a chill: he still couldn't get used to the
fact that Snape was on the good side and had even risked his life to help
Harry. Harry's mind wouldn't let go of the hums and the shrinking potion.
He had acted the part of the villain too well. As Harry walked in Snape
stood up and held his hand out to shake Harry's. Harry shook the
outstretched hand awkwardly. It felt cold as marble. Harry sat down not
sure what to say. After an embarrassing pause Snape began,
"I, well Richard and I would like to thank you for what you did for both of
us." Although Snape appeared friendly, there was a coldness in his eyes
that showed that his love for Harry had changed little. "You showed
outstanding bravery and we both owe our lives to you." The sincerity of
these words were betrayed in Snape's black eyes. Harry feeling very
uncomfortable felt his face go red and hot as he replied,
"Thank you Professor, for protecting me." Harry hoped his words didn't
sound as insincere as he thought they did. Richard looked straight at Harry
for the first time. Harry felt that the bond that connected them was still
as strong as ever. Harry could hear Richard thanking him profusely for what
he had done, even though no-one else could hear a word. Harry told him it
was nothing, and that he'd like to meet up some time. They both suddenly
realised that the room was silent, and both Hermione and Snape were looking
at them oddly. Harry said,
"Are you going to Hogwarts then?" Richard answered immediately,
"Father has to sort it out with Professor Dumbledore, but I hope so." It
made Harry feel odd to hear Snape being called father and he was just about
to ask another question when Snape interrupted,
"Well Potter," Snape almost spat the word out, "we won't trespass on your
time further. I will see you next year when the school reopens. Good bye."
Richard cast a regretful look at Harry and told him in his head that he was
sorry his father didn't like Harry, but that he would like to meet up some
time. As he followed Snape out of the room, Harry told Richard that he'd
send an owl.
As soon as Snape and Richard had left the room, Hermione looked at Harry
questioningly,
"Is it me or was there a conversation that I wasn't hearing?" Harry replied
slowly,
"I don't know why, but I can speak to him in my head. That's why I knew
where he was being held prisoner. I think it's something to do with
Voldemort killing his twin, and my parents." Hermione looked surprised.
"I think I read about that in Magical Phenomena: Principles and
Interpretation. Hang on let me get it." She rushed upstairs looking
excited. She returned looking flushed and clutching a book bound in red
dragon skin.
"It's in here, Professor Jenai lent it to me for a bit of extra reading.
It's called the Ingle Jacksons Phenomenon. If someone kills a person's
family but if for some reason one of them survives and then the same
happens to another family using the same wand then they are connected.
Usually this is just feeling strong emotions or pain." She looked up
looking puzzled. "That doesn't explain why you can hear him though." She
buried her head in the book again. A few minutes later she continued,
"It's only a theory, but based on what it says I think that Richard's twin
allows you to talk. I don't understand it completely. This book is what
you'd study at university level." Just then Ron came back carrying a large
box of chocolate frogs.
"Hagrid says he forgot to give these to you," Ron said happily his mouth
full of chocolate.Even though he wasn't allowed out of the house, the week was a happy one
for Harry. He had missed the company of Hermione and Ron and it was fun not
to worry about anything and just be himself. It was at the end of the
second week that Dumbledore returned to the Burrow. He was very concerned
about Harry's wound. His whole neck was a horrible grey, and the cut was a
dull white. Although it wasn't painful, it had a low throb that never left.
Harry thought he might be making too much of it, but he was sure that it
was the wound that was making him feel continually tired. He voiced his
concerns to Dumbledore who then looked very worried.
"I am not an expert Harry, but I know this is serious. I wanted you to come
with me to the Ministry of Magic today. I think that when we have finished
there we should visit St Mungo's. They will be able to examine it. Shall we
go by Flue Powder, or apparate?" Eager to show his skills at apparating
Harry chose the latter. Dumbledore's eyes twinkled at him,
"Alright, we need to go to the Hilda Moss Room, The Ministry of Magic. You
need to concentrate on those words. And then apparate. Alright. Follow me."
And with that Dumbledore disappeared from sight. Harry concentrated hard,
and saying the words found himself travelling incredibly fast, so that
around him there was just a blur. Within seconds he hit the ground with
enough force to make his knees buckle, nearly throwing him to the floor.
Beside him Dumbledore gave a small chuckle.
"Nearly there Harry." Dumbledore now looked a little more serious. "Now we
will be meeting with the elected council of wizards. They will question you
much, I believe. Answer all their questions as truthfully as you can. They
may ask you questions about the events of last summer also." Harry suddenly
felt nervous, as if he was about to go on trial. He followed Dumbledore
into a gloomy room where five wizards were sitting on ornately carved
chairs. A single stained glass window depicting an elderly wizard defeating
a dragon lighted the room. Coloured pools of light were scattered over the
floor. The walls were panelled with a dark wood. Pictures of stern wizards
lined the walls, with long grey beards and flowing cloaks. The roof was
painted a midnight blue, through which small golden stars glowed. Cornelius
Fudge was sitting on the largest chair and it was him that spoke first,
"Welcome Harry, welcome to the Chamber of the Stars." Cornelius Fudge
beckoned to a chair that was facing the line of wizards. Nervously Harry
pulled himself onto the heavily varnished seat. Dumbledore took a seat at
the back of the room.
"Could you explain exactly what happened at the Triwizard Tournament when
you touched the Triwizard Cup," Cornelius Fudge began. Harry started and
tried his best to remember every detail and keep to the truth as much as
possible. The happenings of the last summer were still painful, but the
pain had faded slightly, and Harry was able to recount the circumstances of
Cedric's death, and then what happened on the Island of Clare.
Occasionally Fudge prompted him, but mostly he was left to tell his own
version of the past year. The sun was high in the sky when Harry finished
telling them about the final confrontation with Voldemort. The Chamber of
the Stars was silent until Harry finished. Fudge then gently unwrapped the
thick white bandage from Harry's neck and showed them the sickening grey
bruise that surrounded the cut made by the silver knife. Several of the
witches and wizards drew breath sharply as they saw the gash. Fudge too
drew back and looked grave,
"There is no mistake, this is a wound of the silver knife. Thank you Harry,
we want to talk to Professor Dumbledore now, would you mind stepping
outside." Harry gladly left the stuffy Chamber of Stars with its important
witches and wizards and flopped down on a red couch in the Hilda Moss Room.
In an ornate gilded frame a young looking witch with shining golden hair
was riding a flying carpet around some fluffy clouds in a sapphire sky. She
waved merrily at Harry before doing the loop a loop around a cloud. A large
window that looked over a neatly kept quadrangle, occasionally crossed by
witches or wizards talking easily, lighted the room. The sky outside was a
brilliant powder blue, and Harry suddenly felt a longing to be far away,
walking in fields without a care in the world. Instead Harry closed his
eyes and waited for Dumbledore to appear. It seemed many hours before
Dumbledore left the Chamber of the Stars. He gave Harry a small smile,
"Thank you for your patience. Now I do believe there is another member of
the Ministry who would like to talk to you." He smiled further at Harry's
puzzled face, but did not elaborate. Instead he left the Hilda Moss room
through a small door and Harry followed him. They passed along long halls
with stone flags and dark panelled walls. Many wizards did a double take
when seeing Harry, one wizard dropped a huge pile of parchment in his hurry
to shake Harry's hand, another witch, much to Harry's embarrassment tried
to kiss Harry's feet. His cheeks bright red Harry was immensely glad when
Dumbledore took a sharp turn travelled down a windy little staircase and
knocked on a small weedy looking door that said in rather faded letters LUDO BAGMAN Department for Magical Sports and Games
The door was opened at once, and Harry recognised the short ruffled outline
of Ludo Bagman.
"Pleased to meet you again, very pleased indeed," Ludo said trying to shake
Dumbledore and Harry's hand at the same time,
"Well come in, come in." Bagman's office gave the impression its last
resident had been a small tornado. Parchment covered every surface, while
the walls were covered with bright pictures of wizards and witches playing
Quidditch. Most of them featured a Quidditch player in Yellow and Black
stripy robes. A huge banner hung over Bagman's desk that read, WISBORNE
WASPS. Ludo beckoned them to sit on two chairs facing his desk. Harry moved
a large box of parchment scrolls and sat nervously on his seat wondering
why Bagman wanted to see him.
"Well Harry, I expect you're wondering why I've asked to see you." Harry
nodded.
"Well we've got a bit of a problem. It's not been well publicised, but we
have a British Under 18 Quidditch team, that's short of a seeker. I've
asked through all the British clubs, and none of the seekers are under 18.
So I asked Professor Dumbledore here if any of his students were of a good
enough standard, and he said that you were the best seeker they'd had for
many years. I was very impressed with your skills against the Horntail at
the Triwizard Cup, and although you are still very young for the team, we
think that your talent surpasses your age." Harry blushed a little, but
listened with growing excitement.
"So I have asked you here today to see if you'd be interested in joining
the team." Harry couldn't believe what he was hearing.
"Y.y.yes I w.would" Harry said stuttering, trying to get the words out.
Ludo gave a huge grin, leapt over his desk and patted Harry hard on the
back, almost making Harry choke.
"I'll send you an owl with the details of training and the date of your
first match. That's wonderful. Thank you very much Harry. All the games in
the under 18 league take place during the school holidays, so your
schooling won't be affected and I won't be getting any nasty owls from
Dumbledore here." Bagman was looking like Christmas has come early.
"Reminds me of the time when we were a beater short with the Wasps, his
grandmother had died, and he couldn't make the match, we nearly had to go
on with a player short, but just in time a bloke I know from the years
when."
"Anyway, thank you for your time, I'm sorry but we'll have to leave you
now," Dumbledore said swiftly giving Harry a look.
"Yes yes, time's precious, well thank you again Harry, expect we'll see
each other again soon. Might even see you in the English Quidditch team,
they often look at the under 18 teams to pick up any talent. Well, off you
go then. Good luck," and with that Harry and Dumbledore left the crowded
office of Ludo Bagman.
"What ever you do don't get Ludo started on the old days," Dumbledore told
Harry seriously. "He'll keep you there for hours if you let him. Now there
are anti-apparating charms on this part of the ministry so we'll have to go
a bit further away to apparate. Are you alright?" Dumbledore asked looking
at Harry's bandaged throat.
"Yes fine," Harry replied. It was hurting, but he didn't want to admit it
to Dumbledore. Dumbledore however, didn't look convinced. He said nothing
though, and instead took the lead along the corridors. Dumbledore seemed
very familiar with the twisting passages and hidden staircases. The
building seemed to have almost as many secret and hidden passages as
Hogwarts. They did finally arrive in the neat little quadrangle that Harry
had seen from the Hilda Moss Room. From the ground Harry could see the
intricate arches and covered walkway that surrounded the clean square of
grass. Stone serpents were wrapped round the pillars, while at each corner
perched a large winged dragon that flapped it's wings and breathed fire
when anyone passed.
"This is known as the apparating courtyard," Dumbledore told Harry. "The
dragons are specially trained. If anyone tries to use this area without the
Ministry's permission, they attack."
"But how come we were able to apparate straight into the Hilda Moss room?"
Harry asked.
"That together with the Chamber of the Stars is used for special occasions.
For example if we wanted to impress foreign wizards, it wouldn't look very
impressive if we made them apparate to here, so at special times we reverse
the anti-apparating charms on it. You're obviously important enough to use
the Hilda Moss Room." Dumbledore told him giving him a wide smile. His
tiredness had left his face and he was looking more like the Dumbledore
Harry had first met five years ago.
"Now we need to go St Mungo's Hospital. Are you alright apparating?"
"Yes I'm fine" Harry replied quickly. Beside him Dumbledore disapparated.
Harry followed.





--------




Chapter 19 The wound of the silver knifeHarry found himself in a neatly furnished reception area. Large green
plants were scattered throughout the room in between purple and blue
settees. In front of him Dumbledore was at a desk where a witch was sitting
wearing pale green robes. She turned and stared at Harry as he arrived,
before quickly reverting her eyes back to Dumbledore. Dumbledore came over
to Harry. "The mediwizard won't be long."
Harry perched on one of the comfy chairs and waited. It was only a few
minutes when another witch in the same colour robes as the receptionist
walked over.
"We're ready to see you now," she said softly, her eyes making the familiar
flick to Harry's forehead and then his neck.
"I'll wait out here for you" Dumbledore told Harry. Harry nodded and
followed the medinurse to a small room on the other side of the reception.
Harry entered a small room painted a deep cream with yet more green plants
round the floor and the desk where an important looking wizard sat. The
medinurse left, and Harry was left facing a wizard with long white robes. A
small emblem of an odd looking vegetable, crossing a wand glowed silver on
his chest.
"Harry Potter," the wizard said seriously, "I'm Doctor Mulier, the head
doctor at St Mungos. I understand you're having problems with your throat.
A rather unfortunate weapon- the silver knife. Well let's have a look." He
carefully undid the long bandages swathing Harry's neck. Harry winced as
Doctor Mulier touched it with a long finger. Ice-cold pain shot down his
neck. Doctor Mulier made a long sigh as he looked carefully at the whole of
Harry's neck. Then to Harry's surprise Doctor Mulier left the room leaving
Harry sitting on the hard chair. Harry stared at the room. He was sure that
the green plants were growing as he watched. A large purple bud had erupted
with a loud pop when the mediwizard returned followed by a tall imposing
witch clutching a clipboard. They both prodded Harry's neck and muttered
quietly. It was some time before they finally retreated to behind the desk.
The doctors both looked rather worried.
"That cut was made by an evil weapon," Doctor Mulier began. "We have very
limited experience in dealing with such a wound. We believe there may be a
shard of the knife remaining in your neck, which is what is causing the
wound to remain the way, it is. I would like to try and get the splinter
out." Harry looked at them blankly.
"You said that your neck felt cold, and it tingles, these are all signs of
a dark weapon remaining in your throat. If it remains in there much longer,
it may kill you. The knife is trying to carry out the work of it's master,"
Doctor Mulier continued. "Time is short. I believe that we should operate
as soon as possible, now if this is suitable with Professor Dumbledore and
yourself." Harry nodded numbly. The second doctor now spoke; she had a
sharp voice that reminded Harry of Professor McGonegall,
"I will have a word with Professor Dumbledore now" She swept out of the
room. Doctor Mulier went over to a massive cupboard that filled the entire
side of the room. It's doors were made of glass, and inside Harry could see
rows and rows of little glass bottles. Some were bottle green; some jet-
black and some were glinting blood red. Doctor Mulier reached for a small
green bottle with a small stopper in the shape of a cloud. He shook it
gently and the liquid inside bubbled. He turned to Harry.
"You will have to have a draught of sleeping potion, we will administer
more if you need it." He gave the small bottle to Harry.
"You'll need to drink all of it," Doctor Mulier told Harry. Harry lifted
the stopper of the jar and drank it in one gulp. Harry tasted coconut
before he floated off into a comfy world of blackness.When Harry's eyes opened he found himself in a small room painted a bizarre
shade of pink. Surrounding him were all the people he loved most. Hermione
and Ron with his parents were standing by his bed. Just behind them were
Bill and Charlie Weasley looking at him with big grins. Dumbledore was
sitting patiently at the end of the bed, and to his amazement Sirius was
standing in his natural form next to Dumbledore. Harry sat up, about to
tell him to get out unless he got caught when Dumbledore spoke,
"Harry it's alright. Sirius and I have been to the ministry. Sirius agreed
to go under a truth potion, and the true story emerged. This together with
his actions in your protection and my testimony was enough to clear
Sirius's name. He is a free man now." Sirius stepped forward, but before he
could speak Harry had jumped out of bed and thrown his arms tightly around
Sirius. When Harry eventually let go of Sirius's neck Sirius was able to
speak,
"Harry, I would like to ask you again - you don't have to agree, but if you
want to, what I'm trying to say, is would you like to live with me?" Harry
tried to answer, but the answer stuck in his throat. He stared at Sirius in
disbelief. He knew Sirius understood. Everyone around him was smiling.
Harry couldn't remember feeling so happy. Dumbledore spoke again,
"You'll also be pleased to know that your throat is completely healed. The
mediwizards extracted two-minute shards of the knife that were slowly
moving towards your heart. They are gone now though, and you have five
months to enjoy before Hogwarts begins again. The year will begin again as
we only managed to complete just over a term. I will leave you now." He
bowed slightly to Harry and Harry suddenly felt overwhelmed with gratitude
and happiness,
"Sir?"
"Yes Harry?"
"I just wanted to say, thank you for everything you've done for me," Harry
said a little nervously. Dumbledore smiled again his eyes twinkling with
their usual merriness,
"It's been a pleasure Harry." And with that he left the room. The rest of
the afternoon was spent very jovially with the Weasleys and Hermione. Mr
Weasley had taken or been given the afternoon off work to visit Harry. Ron
and Hermione were glad to see Harry looking better, and without the huge
bandages round his neck. Sirius sat as close as he could to Harry, still
being very protective of him. It was only late that evening when Harry was
alone with Sirius that he tried to explain how happy he felt. Sirius and
Harry talked late into the night about holiday plans, and Harry's Quidditch
practises for the under 18 England Team. Sirius promised to take Harry, Ron
and Hermione on a wizarding tour of the world. They talked about visiting
Shanlorien- the only wizarding city in the world in Bavaria, riding magic
carpets in Persia, and seeing Fallibroome Greens in the American National
Dragon Park.
The next morning after a fine breakfast a nurse in minty coloured robes
handed Harry a letter (owls were considered too unhygienic to be allowed in
the hospital) Harry opened it quickly and read it.
Dear Harry,
I hope you are well, I've read about you in the Daily Prophet. I've been so
worried about you, and I can't wait for us to meet again. Thank you so much
for the ring you gave me. It was perfect; I haven't taken it off my finger
since I got it. I hope we can meet up some time this holiday.
I l93ove you
Cho
Harry sank back on hisght of Cho, with her jet black hair, captivating eyes
and beautiful smile. He closed his eyes, and for the first time since he
had left Hogwarts he felt completely safe and at peace.
Later that day Doctor Mulier entered Harry's room with a quiet smile. He
examined Harry's neck before turning to Sirius who was sitting next to the
bed.
"We think that he is fully healed, he is free to go now. Enjoy the rest of
your holidays Harry." It took less than five minutes for Harry to pack his
things and walk out of the front doors of the hospital, Sirius standing
tall and proud by his side. Outside the London traffic was noisily going
about its business, unaware of two emotionally charged wizards standing
outside a wizard hospital. Sirius turned to Harry with a grin splitting his
face,
"Alright then, where shall we go?" The End





--------




That's all, folks, please please read and review, thanks! x

